TITLE: Data of nutrients and DO concentration in Prydz Bay during the 24th CHINARE, 2007-2008. ABSTRACT: The distribution and concentration of nutrients, including phosphate, nitrate, nitrite, ammonium and silicate were investigated in the Prydz Bay East Antarctica during CHINARE-24. The results show that the concentration of phosphate and nitrate decreased with increasing latitude in the bay.. KEYWORD: polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, niskin bottles, r, v xuelong, earth science, phosphate, ammonia, ceos, nitrate, do, nutrients, nitrite, silicate, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Raw data of XBT and XCTD data of CHINARE-15 (Dec. 1998-Feb. 1999). ABSTRACT: XBT and XCTD probes were droped along a section north of the Weddell Sea, Antarctica, to measure temperatures and salinities at the upper ocean (above 1000m), during the austral summer of 1998 1999.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, xctd, southern ocean, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, xbt, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, weddell sea, geographic region, 
TITLE: Hydrology and Glaciology of the Dry Valleys of Antarctica - glacier mass balance, ablation and movement and melt record determined by monitoring of stream flow and lake level of glacier fed streams and lakes. ABSTRACT: A hydrological glaciological study was conducted in the Dry Valleys of Antarctica from the 1969 70 summer until the 1990 91 season. The purpose of the hydrological glaciological programme was to study present fluctuations of selected glaciers and of lakes and streams fed by meltwater because these fluctuations are indicators of climate change in this part of Antarctica. Knowledge of the interactions of glaciers and lakes and streams fed by meltwater in the dry valleys with present climate is needed for better interpretation of the history of these glaciers and lakes and for prediction of their future behaviour if the climate changes. The research program includes direct measurements of glacier mass balance and glacier margins and indirect measurements of glacier melt recorded by stream flow and changes in lake level. Stream flow was monitored on the Onyx River and various other meltwater streams in the Wright Valley throughout the study and more recently near the outlet of the Upper Victoria Lake in Victoria Valley, downstream from the Garwood Glacier lake in the Garwood Valley and at three sites on the Adams and Miers streams in the Miers Valley to expand the spatial variability. Water samples were collected at some sites and analysed for suspended sediment particles. Water temperature was recorded on the Onyx River. The water level of lakes throughout the Dry Valleys was monitored including Lake Vanda and Lake Brownworth in the Wright Valley, Lake Vida and Upper Victoria Lake in Victoria Valley, Lake Vashka and Lake Webb in the Barwick Valley, Lake Fryxell, Lake Chad (Hoare), Lake Henderson and Lake Bonney in the Taylor Valley, Lake Joyce and Lake House in the Pearce Valley and Lake Miers in the Miers Valley. Measurements were generally recorded at the beginning of the summer and again at the end of the summer. Continuous monitoring of Lake Vanda was conducted throughout the summer and later in the programme at Don Juan Pond (1980 81 season). Mass balances, ablation and other measurements were measured since 1969 on several glaciers within the Dry Valleys including the Sykes, Alberich, Heimdall, Upper Wright, Lower Wright, Clarke, Meserve, Bartley, Hart, Goodspeed, Denton and the Wilson Piedmont Glaciers in the Wright Valley, the Upper Victoria, Lower Victoria and Packard Glaciers in the Victoria Valley, the Upper Taylor, La Croix, Suess, Canada and Commonwealth Glaciers in the Taylor Valley and the Miers and Adams Glaciers in the Miers Valley. Not all measurements were made at each glacier in each season. Throughout the seasons of monitoring, climate data was collected. Daily observations by the investigators was coupled with the installation of met stations at various sites for various amounts of time.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, landscape processes, wright valley, onyx river, water temperature, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, field surveys, lake ice, ablation zones, accumulation zones, total surface water, water quality, water chemistry, ground stations, lakes, suspended solids, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, taylor valley, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, lake vanda, antarctica, watershed characteristics, field investigation, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, discharge, flow, victoria valley, rivers, streams, amd, nz, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, landscape, 
TITLE: Data set of CTD from the 7th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1990 1991. ABSTRACT: From Dec. of 1990 to Jan. of 1991, Thirty-seven CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay. This data set include:Site no.,Latitude,Longitude,Start-Time(LT),Bottom Depth(m),Cable Angle. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: V. Skeletal Road Network Files, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Skeletal Road Network Files contain selected roads (with road names, but no addresses) that are derived from Road Network Files (Catalogue No. 92F0157XCE). The selected roads are ranked according to four levels of detail. The different levels of detail are suitable for mapping at small to medium scales. The SRNF can be used to provide some cartographic reference features when producing thematic maps with the Cartographic Boundary Files. The positional accuracy of the SRNF does not support cadastral, surveying or engineering applications. The SRNF does not include hydrography. The Skeletal Road Network Files are available for Canada, provinces and territories, and census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and tracted census agglomerations (CAs). A reference guide is included (92F0158GIE). Coordinates: Latitude Longitude (NAD83). Format: ARC INFO Interchange, and MapInfo Interchange for Windows. Price notes: The price for individual provinces or territories ranges from $100 to $800. The price for individual census metropolitan areas (CMAs) or tracted census agglomerations (CAs) ranges from $100 to $250. Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92f0158XCE01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The Skeletal Road Network Files are thinned out versions of highly detailed Road Network Files. They provide background reference when used in conjunction with the Cartographic Boundary Files. The skeletal network of roads provides visual cues to locate areas. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 CNT Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, streets, census tracts, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, federal electoral districts, northern hemisphere, geocoding, north america, ontario, boundaries, census consolidated subdivisions, highways, human dimensions, block face, geographical classification, representative points, cities, nova scotia, census divisions, geographical areas, planning, canada, cgdi, canada, towns, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, nunavut, northwest territories, census agglomerations, handbooks, saskatchewan, geographical reference date, street networks, polar, earth science, ceos, dissemination areas, quebec, alberta, hydrography, prince edward island, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night V003. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 3 night product (MOD29P1N3) contains the following fields: Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, and Sea Ice by IST. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring. This data set represents Version 3 (V003) of the MODIS processing scheme. The V003 collection contains reprocessed V001 data from 5 March 2001 onward and V003 data from 24 May 2001 onward. V003 data contain processing refinements accommodating algorithm, instrument and calibration stabilization. V003 start dates will continually shift to earlier dates as V001 data are reprocessed to V003. After V003 data are generated for a given day, the V001 data for the same day will still be available for ordering through the EOS Data Gateway (EDG) for at least six months. Eventually, V003 data will completely replace V001 data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Daily Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Soil environmental information during the 5th Arctic expedition at Yellow River Station in 2008. ABSTRACT: Soil temperatures at the surface and 5cm, 10cm, 15cm below the surface were detected.. KEYWORD: polar, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, land surface, ocean, temperature, soil temperature, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, geographic region, soils, 
TITLE: Global temperature database: 500 stations. Measurements since 1720. ABSTRACT: Rimfrost is a 100% free of charge website containing temperature measurements from more than 500 observation stations worldwide. These have been chosen, so that from both a national and a global perspective, the measurements, when statistically corrected, shall give the most reliable estimates of global temperature change. As climate development in the major industrial nations is expected to be of major interest, USA is represented with 25 weather stations, China with approximately 20, Russia with 25, Germany with 44, U.K. with 25, France with 10, Japan with 10, India with 30 etc. Climate change in Northern Atlantic region is also considered to be important. Because of this the Nordic nations have been especially well instrumented. Norway with its long coastline with the Atlantic Ocean has approx. 50 stations, Sweden approx. 30 and Finland 10. This is a natural reason for the development of Rimfrost by a University College in this region (NITH OSLO). The Rimfrost database contains mainly long time series measurements. We have consciously chosen observation stations that have measured temperature over long time periods. This gives the best conditions for obtaining more insight into how the climate has changed. Uppsala has measurements from approx. 1720, Stykkisholmur (Iceland) from 1830, New York from 1822, Berlin from 1701, London from 1840, Beijing from 1841, Calcutta from 1816 etc. In many cases the observation station has been moved and the local climate has changed through, for example, increased urbanization. In such cases climate researchers have tried to homogenize measurements in order they can be as comparable as possible over long periods of time. Rimfrost contains reasonably modern analytical tools for extended time series. The system's major strength is that it contains global data series. These can be combined in a variety of ways and form the basis for detailed studies and modeling. The analytical tools also include temperature trend analyses. This makes it possible to calculate the average change for all weather stations in a particular country. It is also possible to compare groups of countries. (Ex G8-countries) Rimfrost is multilingual. So far it is available in English (standard), German, Spanish, Finnish,Icelandic, Swedish and Norwegian. More languages are to come.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, western europe, japan, western africa, arctic, poland, western asia, pakistan, south africa, western pacific ocean, argentina, russia, north america, sweden, south america, france, madagascar, philippines, africa, switzerland, iraq, australia, senegal, central africa, northern europe, antarctica, southcentral asia, croatia, canada, ocean, middle east, congo, democratic republic, air temperature indices, amd, nepal, austria, geographic region, indian ocean, chile, eastern africa, continent, british isles, spain, brazil, mozambique, germany, north atlantic ocean, global, lithuania, air temperature, romania, amd, no, india, climate indicators, southern europe, hungary, kenya, mediterranean sea, scandinavia, denmark, united states of america, greece, paraguay, lebanon, northern africa, common sense climate index, europe, italy, finland, polar, zimbabwe, egypt, nigeria, sudan, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, united kingdom, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, malta, iceland, eastern europe, china, israel, tunisia, afghanistan, norway, atlantic ocean, uganda, ireland, southern africa, 
TITLE: Data set of the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 7th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1990 1991. ABSTRACT: From December of 1990 to April of 1991, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.BMT is the Beijing Mean Time.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, salinometers, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, thermometers, amd, global ocean, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Black Sea Red Sea Oxygen Isotope and Terrigeneous Flux Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Black Sea Red Sea Oxygen Isotope and Terrigeneous Flux Data. High-resolution sediment cores from the southwestern Black Sea and the northernmost Gulf of Aqaba were used to infer hydroclimatic changes in northern Anatolia and the northern Red Sea region during the last ~7500 years. Red Sea, Gulf of Aqaba, core GeoB 5804-4: GeoB 5804-4 (29 deg. 30.1'N, 34 deg. 57.4'E; 464 m water depth) Black Sea, cores GeoB 7622-2 and 7625-2: GeoB 7622-2 (41 deg. 32.1'N, 31 deg. 10.1'E, 1305 m water depth) GeoB 7625-2 (41 deg. 26.7'N, 31 deg. 04.0'E, 1242 m water depth) Abstract Paleoenvironmental proxy data for ocean properties, eolian sediment input, and continental rainfall based on high-resolution analyses of sediment cores from the southwestern Black Sea and the northernmost Gulf of Aqaba were used to infer hydroclimatic changes in northern Anatolia and the northern Red Sea region during the last ~7500 years. Pronounced and coherent multicentennial variations in these records reveal patterns that strongly resemble modern temperature and rainfall anomalies related to the Arctic Oscillation  North Atlantic Oscillation (AO NAO). These patterns suggest a prominent role of AO NAO-like atmospheric variability during the Holocene beyond interannual to interdecadal timescales, most likely originating from solar output changes.. KEYWORD: microfossils, continent, arctic ocean, paleo start date 7500 ybp, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, north atlantic oscillation, usa, noaa, arctic oscillation, paleoclimate, climate indicators, terrigenous sediments, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, temperature, europe, marine sediments, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, sediment, eastern europe, red sea, ocean, oceans, geographic region, indian ocean, sediments, oxygen isotopes, teleconnections, black sea, 
TITLE: Dynamic Response of Surface Energy and Mass Balance of Vest and Austfonna (Nordaustlandet, Svalbard) on Climate Change (Germany). ABSTRACT: Data from six Automatic Weather Stations (AWS) installed at the northwestern side of the Vestfonna ice cap on Nordaustlandet, Svalbard. Measured Parameters: -Short wave radiation, air temperature, relative humidity, snow height, soil temperature, wind parameters at all stations. -Long wave radiation, net radiation, soil water content, soil heat flux, carbon dioxide, water vapour, high-frequency temperature and turbulence data at some stations times.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, glaciers, arctic ocean, altitude, atmospheric temperature, snow melt, north atlantic ocean, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, ablation zones, accumulation zones, precipitation, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, snow cover, international polar year, tropopause, soil temperature, snow, ice, barents sea, albedo, polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, cryosphere, freeze, thaw, snow, ice temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, glaciers, ice sheets, atmospheric winds, ice sheets, ipy, permafrost, ocean, snow, planetary boundary layer height, frozen ground, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, snow depth, 
TITLE: All-Sky TV Camera Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2002 dataset. ABSTRACT: All-sky TV camera is to monitor auroral displays nearly 180 degrees in filed of view, it consists of all-sky camera, control box, timing generator, timer corrector, two VHS recorders, SVHS recorders and TEAC recorder. The all-sky video data is recorded on VHS tapes with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other copy goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between two institutes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, all-sky camera, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, aurorae, geographic region, 
TITLE: World Glacier Inventory. ABSTRACT: The World Glacier Inventory contains information for over 100,000 glaciers through out the world. Parameters within the inventory include geographic location, area, length, orientation, elevation,and classification of morphological type and moraines. The inventory entries are based upon a single observation in time and can be viewed as a 'snapshot' of the glacier at this time. The core of this collection is data from the World Glacier Monitoring Service, Zurich. The development of the data product was funded through NOAA's Environmental Services Data and Information Management (ESDIM) program.. KEYWORD: glaciers, polar, aircraft, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, global, usa, nasa, usa, noaa, glaciers, ice sheets, cameras, global land, visual observations, ground stations, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: Historical Arctic and Antarctic Surface Observational Data. ABSTRACT: This product consists of meteorological data from 105 Arctic weather stations and 137 Antarctic stations, extracted from the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC)'s Integrated Surface Hourly (ISH) database. Variables include wind direction, wind speed, visibility, air temperature, dew point temperature, and sea level pressure. Temporal coverage varies by station, with the earliest record in 1913 and the latest in 2002. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format, with one file per station and year. Graphs of meteorological variables throughout the time series accompany the ASCII data. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, continent, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, automated surface observing system, air temperature, automated weather stations, usa, noaa, station data, eosdis, greenland, earth science information partners program, north america, air quality, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, visibility, nsidc daac, surface air temperature, near-surface wind speeds, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, daac, earth observing system data information system, automatic remote weather station, automated weather station data, amd, esip, asos, geographic region, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Neon and other noble gas measurements in ice core samples from Vostok and Megadunes. ABSTRACT: Neon argon ratios in ice core samples from three sites: GISP2, Greenland, and Vostok and Megadunes, Antarctica. These samples show that neon is not preserved in ice core samples, but rather leaks out of stored samples. The Megadunes samples were taken using "Craig Can" technology, which involves putting the sample in an evacuated container immediately after core recovery. This prevents the loss of neon. These Megadunes samples show neon values close to atmospheric, in contrast to samples that have been stored in freezers for years, and support the interpretation that neon leaks out of stored samples.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, amd, us, ice core air bubbles, paleoclimate reconstructions, trapped gases, arctic, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, coring devices, usa, noaa, ice sample gas integrity, antarctica, paleoclimate, greenland, usa, nsf, north america, noble gases, amd, ice core records, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Charts of the Russian Arctic in Gridded Format, 1933-2006. ABSTRACT: The Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) in St. Petersburg, Russia, produces sea ice charts for safety of navigation in the polar regions and for other operational and scientific purposes. Arctic charts from 1933 through 2006 are collected in this data set. Chart frequency and spatial coverage varies, but charts were compiled every 10 days during the navigation season, and monthly for the rest of the year, over most of the series. There is a gap with no charts from 1993 through 1996. Chart coverage focuses on the Northern Sea Route, although later charts extend into the central Arctic. The charts were compiled from a variety of data sources, with heavy reliance on regular reconnaissance flights for most of the series until 1992. Early paper charts were digitized, and the entire series, including later charts that were produced entirely digitally, were converted to Sea Ice Grid (SIGRID) format at AARI. AARI provided code to read the SIGRID data and convert it to a format close to Equal Area Scalable (EASE)-Grid. NSIDC completed the conversion to EASE-Grid. The EASE-Grid is in a Lambert equal-area projection with 12.5 km cell size. Total ice concentration, as well as partial concentrations for multiyear, first-year, new young ice (ice younger than first-year ice), and fast ice, are given in EASE-Grid (binary), SIGRID (ASCII), and browse (PNG) files. Data are available via FTP. This data set replaces and updates the previous data set, AARI 10-Day Arctic Ocean EASE-Grid Sea Ice Observations (nsidc-0050, discontinued December 2007), and the Russian Arctic charts on the Environmental Working Group Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas (http:  nsidc.org data g01962.html). Access to the data is unrestricted, but users are encouraged to register for the data. Registered users will receive e-mail notification about any product changes.. KEYWORD: continent, ice charts, sea ice concentration, ease-grid, arctic, usa, noaa, visible spectrometer, buoys, side-looking airborne radar, northern hemisphere, russia, ice types, sea ice, visual observations, ground stations, europe, radiometers, satellites, polar, sar, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, sigrid, synthetic aperture radar, eastern europe, infrared radiometers, oceans, aari, geographic region, slar, 
TITLE: Hourly Mesosphere Wind Estimates (Meteor Winds) for Stations in Antarctica, Arctic Ocean, and Europe. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of meridional and zonal hourly winds accompanied with hourly meteor rates, as measured by ground-based meteor radar. The hourly winds were obtained at the height interval of 92-95 km using meteor radars with no angle gauges. The data were recorded at Molodezhnaya (Antarctica), Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean), Obninsk, USSR, and Khulungsborn, Germany. Radar characteristics include wave length = 9m, peak power = 50-70 kw, pulse length = 20-30 mks, pulse repetition = 500 pps, sensitivity = 2-3 mkv, 5-elements yagi antennae, and beam width = 35 degrees. The data coverage for the 4 stations spans 5 years. The term 'meteor wind' is used for the mesosphere wind estimates derived from meteor trail drifts measurements. Ionized meteor trails are produced by meteoroids (meteor particles) which enter the Earth's atmosphere. A meteor trail moves in the atmosphere due to the neutral wind and magnetic field. The radial component of this movement is measured using meteor radar. Estimates of 'meteor wind' are derived from the set of measurements of radial components using statistical characteristics of meteor parameter distributions and parameters of antenna pattern. The 'hourly meteor rate' which is the number of registered meteors for which reliable estimates of radial components can be obtained can also be determined. Meteoroids occur in the height interval 80-100 km and are centered at 92-95 km (maximum for the apex time, near 6 a.m. LT, and minimum for anti-apex time, near 6 p.m. LT ).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, ionosphere, mesosphere winds, mesosphere, ground stations, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, vertical location, polar, hourly data, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, radio detection and ranging, atmospheric winds, radar, ocean, climatology, upper air, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Observation Data of Weather Sience at the ground of Zhong.Shan.Station ,Antarctic in 2001. ABSTRACT: The Antarctic Zhongshan weather station of China which was set up in Feb. 1989. It is located in Lars graceful hills and its station number is 89573. The antarctic Zhongshan weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time 02,08,14,20),and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items include clouds,visibility,weather phenomenon,wind direction,wind speed,temperature,humidity,air pressure,sunlight,soil temperature,precipitation etc. It also observes atmospheric ozone amount and makes site weather forecast for science research.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, mms, amd, cn, humidity, surface winds, polar, temperature anomalies, surface pressure, earth science, ceos, weather info, meteorological measurement system, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, zhongshan station, atmospheric winds, observatories, amd, geographic region, zhongshanstation, south pole, 
TITLE: Canadian Weather Information from Environment Canada. ABSTRACT: Providing The Latest Weather Information for Canadians. Data includes Current Conditions and Local Forecasts, National Weather Forecast Map, Regional Text Forecasts, Regional Weather Summaries, Regional Marine Forecasts, Regional RADAR Imagery, Satellite Imagery, Graphical Operational Forecasts, Operational Analysis Charts and Bulletins, Weather Software, and data from the World Meteorological Organization Region IV - Canada. The URL for the online service is http:  www.weatheroffice.gc.ca canada_e.html provide up-to-date, daily Weather Information for Canadians. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, freezing rain, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, precipitation, northern hemisphere, radio wave, snow cover, north america, ontario, frost, weather, spectral, engineering, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, air quality, rain, infrared wavelengths, atmospheric phenomena, nova scotia, atmospheric water vapor, sensor characteristics, ultraviolet wavelengths, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, hudson bay, canada, ocean, snow, daily, great bear lake, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, aerosols, north atlantic ocean, gulf of alaska, clouds, nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, saskatchewan, platform characteristics, snow, ice, microwave, polar, x-ray, weather forecast, pacific ocean, great lakes, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, hail, quebec, alberta, atmospheric pressure, radar, prince edward island, whiteout, gamma ray, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Reduced-Resolution Radar Imagery, Digital Elevation Models, and Related GIS Layers for Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This product set contains reduced-resolution Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (IFSAR) imagery and geospatial data for the Barrow Peninsula (155.39 - 157.48 deg W, 70.86 - 71.47 deg N), for use in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing software. The primary IFSAR data sets were acquired by Intermap Technologies from 27 to 29 July 2002, and consist of an Orthorectified Radar Imagery (ORRI), a Digital Surface Model (DSM), and a Digital Terrain Model (DTM). Derived data layers include aspect, shaded relief, and slope-angle grids (floating-point binary format), as well as a vector layer of contour lines (ESRI Shapefile format). Also available are accessory layers compiled from other sources: 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS Digital Raster Graphic (DRG) mosaic images (GeoTIFF format); 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS quadrangle index maps (ESRI Shapefile format); and a simple polygon layer of the extent of the Barrow Peninsula (ESRI Shapefile format). The DSM and DTM data sets (20 m resolution) are provided in floating-point binary format with header and projection files. The ORRI mosaic (5 m resolution) is available in GeoTIFF format. FGDC-compliant metadata for all data sets are provided in text, HTML, and XML formats, along with the Intermap License Agreement and product handbook. The baseline geospatial data support education, outreach, and multi-disciplinary research of environmental change in Barrow, which is an area of focused scientific interest. Data are available via FTP and CD-ROM.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, radar reflectivity, terrain elevation, sar imagery, digital elevation model, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, gis, ifsar, usa, nsf, united states of america, topographic effects, opp0224071, north america, alaska, aspect, spectral, engineering, relief, barrow, digital mapping, surface elevation, mapping, digital terrain model, maps, sar, topography, aircraft, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, cartography, slope, contours, orri, radar imagery, radio detection and ranging, orthorectified radar imagery, synthetic aperture radar, radar, topographical relief, digital surface model, arcss data coordination center, topographic maps, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2000. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and finally saved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, sun-earth interactions, earth science, ceos, magnetic fields, magnetic currents, amd, ground stations, arctic, cn, geographic region, antarctica, 
TITLE: Subsample Grain Size Analysis - Expedition Database. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of grain size analysis conducted by the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) Sedimentology Laboratory on subsamples taken from all types of samples collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) and the results are archived in the GSCA GSCP Expedition Database. The analyses are typically conducted at either full, half or quarter phi intervals. Summary statistics include percentages of gravel, sand, silt, clay and mud as well as mean, kurtosis, skewness and standard deviation.Grain size is a fundamental means of characterizing seabed sediment. Seabed sediment may be named according to its grain size. Grain size analysis of marine sediment samples?is a valuable method of determining: the source of the sediments (i.e. whether they were derived from land and blown out to sea; whether they were deposited by oceanic currents or delivered by glaciers or icebergs); the energy level at the seabed under modern conditions (e.g. is?it quiet enough for fine-grained sediments to be deposited or are fines winnowed away,?leaving only coarser-grained sands and gravels behind?); the energy level?in the past when sediments below the seabed were deposited, based on down-core analysis of grain-size; the strength and stability properties of the sediments and their response to loading. Sands, clays and silts all behave very differently under loads. Even a small amount of fines can make a sediment unstable. So grain size is a crucial part of doing a geotechnical investigation of soil stability. The same applies for assessing the stability of a slope under wave-, or sediment- or seismic- loading; the potential for pollutants or contaminants to be deposited or transported; determining whether sediments will be eroded and or transported under the effects of bottom currents that may be produced during tidal fluctuations or severe winter storms. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, continent, arctic ocean, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, offshore canada, manitoba, arctic, none, nunavut, northwest territories, marine, marine geology, northern hemisphere, bedrock, north america, ontario, soils, yukon territory, marine sediments, polar, soil texture, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, beaufort sea, quebec, sedimentary rocks, grain size, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, prince edward island, new brunswick, rocks, minerals, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, coastal, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: Ocean data for the Barents region. ABSTRACT: Various data sets showing ocean circulations systems in the Barents sea. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in geographic coordinates Source Map Name: ETOPO5 paper maps Projection: geographic Projection_meas: decimal degrees Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in geographic coordinates. The coverage was converted from a raster image (ETOPO5) and digitising of paper maps. The coverage has a 'jagged' appearance. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 2 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in UTM coordinates Source Map Name: ETOPO5 paper maps Projection: UTM Projection_desc: zone 33 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in UTM coordinates. The coverage was converted from a raster image (ETOPO5) and digitising of paper maps. The coverage has a 'jagged' appearance. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 3 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in UTM coord - smoothed Source Map Name: ETOPO5 digitising Projection: UTM Projection_desc: zone 33 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the bathymetry of the Barents Sea in UTM coordinates. The coverage was converted from a raster image (ETOPO5) and digitising of paper maps. The arcs were then smoothed to remove the jagged appearance of the lines. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 4 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of the major ocean currents in the Barents Sea Source Map Name: paper map Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the major ocean currents in the Barents Sea digitised from paper maps.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, unep, grid, ocean, earth science, ceos, oceans, un, ocean circulation, barents sea, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Daily L3 Global Snow Water Equivalent EASE-Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. These Level-3 Snow Water Equivalent (SWE) data sets contain SWE data and quality assurance flags mapped to Northern and Southern Hemisphere 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grids (EASE-Grids). Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, swe, swemap, eos pm-1, eos, echo, global, usa, noaa, snow pack, eosdis, aqua, water resources, water storage, earth science information partners program, imagery, ae_dysno, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, amsr-e, radiance, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, water supply, usa, nasa, passive microwave, daac, nasa, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Ecosystem Carbon Fluxes, Toolik Lake, Alaska, 1995 and 1996. ABSTRACT: Carbon dioxide exchange, air temperature, and photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) were measured on tundra plots at the Toolik Lake Field Station during the summers of 1995 and 1996. Measurements were made on control plots, plots from which snow was removed, and plots from which snow was removed before the installation of heating cables at 10 cm depth. Plots with heating cables were heated two hours per day. Carbon dioxide exchange measurements utilized a Li-Cor 6200 portable gas exchange system, and a Li-Cor quantum sensor was used to measure PAR. Data are available in ASCII and MS Excel formats via ftp.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, arctic, opp9615845, usa, noaa, arctic system science, opp-9321626, arcss006, north america, alaska, north slope, thermometers, ground stations, opp9321626, ground-based observations, par, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, toolik lake, biosphere, co2 flux, itex, atmospheric chemistry, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, carbon dioxide exchange, vegetation, air temperature, arcss, laii, itex, usa, nsf, united states of america, polar, carbon dioxide, international tundra experiment, co2 exchange, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, adcc, julian day, licor gas exchange system, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, national science foundation, opp-9615845, 
TITLE: Microalgal Diversity at Antarctica. ABSTRACT: The major objectives of this project are as follows: 1. To document the biodiversity of microalgae at Antarctica 2. To investigate impacts such as global warming, increased UV radiation and nutrient enrichment on the physiological adaptation of Antarctic microalgae, in comparison with tropical and temperate collections. This is done by: 1. conducting an ecological survey of microalgal distribution at specific sites at Antarctica, especially those impacted by human activities. 2. isolating and purifying microalgae collected from Antarctica. 3. identifying the microalgal isolates based on morphological (light and electron microscopy), biochemical (pigments and fatty acids) and molecular (gene sequences) characteristics. 4. investigating the physiological adaptation of Antarctic microalgae under extreme environments, especially in relation to the impacts of global warming, increased UV radiation and nutrient enrichment, in comparison with tropical and temperate species. The principal milestones of the project are as follows: 1. Database of microalgal distribution at specific sites in Antarctica. 2. Establishment of cultures of mircoalgae from Antarctica. 3. Completion of characterization and identification of Antarctic microalgae. 4. Completion of the studies on the physiological adaptation of selected Antarctic microalgae, in comparison with tropical and temperate collections. In collaboration with the Australian Antarctic Division (AAD) we have gone on several expeditions to Casey, Antarctica. A collection of Antarctic microalgae has been established and is deposited in the University of Malaya Algae Culture Collection (UMACC). Comparative studies on the response of Antarctic, Tropical and Temperate microalgae to temperature and UVR stress are being conducted. Molecular basis of the adaptive mechanisms of the microalgae are also being investigated. In addition, the biochemical characterization of oxidative stress enzymes, especially superoxide dismutase (SOD) is in progress. The data set consists of the species list of Antarctic microalgae in our collection, and the effect of temperature and UVR on the growth and fatty acid profiles of selected Antarctic microalgae.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, ecological dynamics, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, plants, amd, my, microalgae, amd, geographic region, biodiversity functions, 
TITLE: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment 1989 (MLML89). ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland. Data is available from a buoy fielded from April 13-June 10, 1989. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Data from this experiment include: Meteorological Data Water Velocity Data Temperature Data See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml89 mlml89.html". KEYWORD: meteorological sensors, velocity averaging wind recorder (vawr 705), current meters, marine light-mixed layer experiment 89, brancker temperature recorders, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, mlml89, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean circulation, ocean sensors, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Canadian National and Regional Standardized Annual Precipitation Departures, in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: The Canadian precipitation departures series were prepared from data contained in the Historical Canadian Climate Database (HCCD). The HCCD contains a collection of total precipitation data sets (rainfall and snow water equivalent) for 131 reporting stations across Canada. Beginning in 1948, approximately 90% of the 131 precipitation reporting stations were used. Before 1915, fewer than 40% of the stations had precipitation data, and before 1948 most of Northern Canada was not represented. Some southern regions have suitable coverage from 1895 onward. Time series of standardized annual precipitation departures from the 1951-80 reference period averages were prepared for the 131 individual stations in the HCCD. The precipitation data are for national Canada and the following regions: Canada (1948-1992) Atlantic Canada (1895-1992) Great Lakes Basin St. Lawrence Lowlands (1895-1992) Northeastern Forest (1938-1992) Northwestern Forest (1932-1992) Prairies (1895-1992) South British Columbia Mountains (1895-1992) Pacific Coast (1911-1992) Yukon North British Columbia Mountains (1939-1992) Mackenzie District (1928-1992) Arctic Tundra (1948-1992) Arctic Mountains and Fiords (1948-1992) The citation for this dataset is: Findlay, B.F., D.W. Gullett, L. Malone, J. Reycraft, W.R. Skinner, L. Vincent, and R. Whitewood. 1994. pp. 800-828. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change. ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA The Canadian precipitation data is available via ftp from: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 precip" CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for all data available in CDIAC's anonymous FTP in pub trends93 co2. The FTP address is CDIAC.ESD.ORNL.GOV and 128.219.24.36 and input your email address as the password. The data bases are arranged as subdirectories in  pub trends93  (co2, ch4, trace, emiss, precip, and temp) that correspond to major chapter headings in Trends '93. The data files are arranged as xxxxx.yyy where xxxxx is the name of the station, country, site, region, or principle investigator and yyy is the page number in Trends '93 (example: vostok.009 refers to the Vostok ice core dataset as tabulated on page 9. Related data are available as Numeric Data Packages from CDIAC:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, prairies, trends'93, arctic, british columbia, atlantic canada, precipitation anomalies, precipitation, north america, northwestern forest, st. lawrence lowlands, great lakes basin, polar, mackenzie district, pacific coast, ftp, earth science, usa, nasa, hccd, yukon, global warming, canada, arctic tundra, northeastern forest, geographic region, 
TITLE: BYU Daily Browse Images of SeaWinds on ADEOS-II Sigma0 Measurements (D. Long); Product #123. ABSTRACT: The QuikSCAT on ADEOS-II (Midori-II) scatterometer provides normalized radar cross section (sigma0) measurements of the Earth's surface. While originally designed for wind observation, scatterometers have proven useful in a variety of land and ice studies. To aid in the selection of regions and time periods for study, Brigham Young University has produced this global sigma0 browse product. This product consists of spatial and temporal averages of SeaWinds Level 1B sigma0 values over a one-day period.. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, arctic, vegetation, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sea ice, snow, ice, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, usa, nasa, biosphere, adeos-ii, antarctica, earth observing system data information system, oceans, amd, esip, advanced earth observing satellite-ii, geographic region, seawinds, 
TITLE: Imaging Riometer for Ionospheric Study Data. ABSTRACT: The Imaging Riometer installed at Zhongshan Station is one of the cooperative projects between the Polar Research Institute of China (PRIC) and Japan's National Institute of Polar Research (NIPR). The Imaging Riometer's antenna array consists of 8*8 dipole-elements with a half-wavelength spacing at 38.2MHz. It can monitor energy particle precipitation by observing cosmic noise absorption all day, with a 400*400 km view field and 20km resolution over Zhongshan Station at 90km altitude. The observation has been ongoing since February 1997. Because of the digisonde noise, the quality of the data during 1997 is not good.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, particle precipitation, continent, polar, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, relative ionospheric opacity meter, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, solar activity, amd, geographic region, riometer, atmospheric radiation, cosmic noise absorption, 
TITLE: Meltpond2000 Polarimetric Scanning Radiometer Sea Ice Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: The Meltpond2000 project was the first in a series of Arctic and Antarctic aircraft campaigns to validate sea ice algorithms developed for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E), primarily to quantify errors in AMSR-E sea ice products resulting from the presence of melt ponds. The AMSR-E validation effort addresses data quality through comprehensive calibration and validation programs. These programs characterize and document the accuracy and precision of AMSR-E observations and their derived products. Data were collected from five flights over Baffin Bay and the Canadian Archipelago from 26 June 2000 to 6 July 2000. All measurements fall within 68.967 deg N - 76.422 deg N, 63.197 deg W - 105.022 deg W. Spatial resolution varies from 0.13 km to 3.6 km, depending on the sensor. Data are provided as MATLAB files, requiring MATLAB version 5.3 or greater. These data and MATLAB programs to generate brightness temperature (TB) maps are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, landsat-7, arctic ocean, arctic, ice temperature, arctic sea ice, usa, noaa, sea ice temperatures, eosdis, psr, meltpond2000, earth science information partners program, slfmr, sea ice, baffin bay, spectral, engineering, microwave, canadian arctic, radiometers, amsr-e, polar, infrared wavelengths, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, brightness temperature, infrared radiometers, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, esip, geographic region, passive microwave brightness temperatures, meltpond2000, nasa, landsat, 
TITLE: Nimbus-5 ESMR Polar Gridded Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: Daily and monthly averaged sea ice concentrations from the Nimbus-5 Electrically Scanning Microwave Radiometer (ESMR) are available for the Arctic and Antarctic from 12 December 1972 through 31 December 1976 at 25 km gridded resolution. Raw data were reprocessed to include ocean masks that reduce weather effects and coastal contamination, and to include a 15% ice threshold. Reprocessed data are in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF) and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, sea ice concentration, arctic, usa, noaa, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sea ice, electronic scanning microwave radiometer, nimbus-5, antarctic, radiometers, polar, amd, us, nsidc daac, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, passive microwave, daac, earth observing system data information system, oceans, amd, esip, geographic region, esmr, ice concentration, 
TITLE: Arctic Ice Dynamics Experiment (AIDJEX) (1975-1976). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: During the Summer of 1975 the Arctic Ice Dynamics Joint Experiment (AIDJEX) maintained four manned camps on ice floes in the Arctic Ocean. Instrumentation located at those camps, or deployed on floating data buoys, recorded surface and geostrophic winds, ocean current velocity at 2 and 30 meter depths, and camp (ice floe) position. Data are archived as daily average values for each camp, as well as ice velocity and smoothed positions. Surface pressure and geostrophic wind data are also available at 6-hourly intervals. From April 7th through 10th, 1976 the submarine USS Gurnard participated in the AIDJEX by tranversing 777 nautical miles along three track lines in the Beaufort Sea, collecting ice thickness data from upward-looking acoustical soundings (sonar). The resulting digital data set is a profile of the sea ice layer, including latitude longitude, 'ping' interval, surface beam diameter, number of data points, and ice thickness. The termination of the AIDJEX project also signals the end of the AIDJEX databank. All validated source data have been submitted to national data banks for permanent retention, together with pertinent documentation. Copies will be distributed from those facilities upon the request of interested scientists. The data acquired during the AIDJEX main experiment have been validated, for the most part, by the principal investigators and analysts. Copies of finished data sets had been supplied to the data bank in several forms, such as unformatted binary using Fortran or Extended Fortran and in formatted SCOPE Internal Display code. Each set is in the format preferred by the analysts' that created it. The units of common variables also vary with the analysts' preference--for example, time in minutes of the day, dates as year-days of AIDJEX days (starting 1 January 1975), latitude and longitude in decimal degrees, and position in rectangular coordinates originating at the North Pole. Data presented to national data banks whose computer centers are not compatible with the CDC 6400 have been prepared in fixed block record size, external BCD,or even parity. Documentation is included as part of the headers and data records. Narrative descriptions of the data may be included as part of the header. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition Data Set ID: ______FE00797_>_Arctic_Ice_Dynamics_Joint_Experiment_(AIDJEX)_Wind,_Current_FE00806_> _Arctic_Ice_Dynamics_Joint_Experiment_Sonar_Ice_Profile ____. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, sea level pressure, sea ice concentration, ocean mixed layer, sonar, usa, noaa, buoys, atmospheric pressure measurements, arctic ice dynamics joint experiment, earth science information partners program, submarine, sea ice, g3os, , differential pressure, sea ice motion, sound navigation and ranging, ice growth, melt, aidjex, sea ice age, surface winds, salinity, ocean winds, surface pressure, ice floes, pack ice, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, atmospheric pressure, bathymetry, seafloor topography, atmospheric winds, water depth, ocean weather stations, ocean, buoy position, ice depth, thickness, oceans, ocean pressure, sea ice elevation, gosic, esip, ocean circulation, snow depth, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Daily Arctic Oscillation (AO) Index from NOAA NWS Center for Climate Prediction. ABSTRACT: [Source: NOAA Climate Prediction Center, http:  www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov  ] The daily Arctic Oscillation (AO) index is constructed by projecting the daily (00Z) 1000mb height anomalies poleward of 20N onto the loading pattern of the AO. The daily AO index and its forecasts using MRF and Ensemble mean forecast data are available for the previous 120 days and they are normalized by standard deviation of the monthly AO index from 1979 to 2000. A 3-day running mean is applied for the forecast indices. Monthly mean and seasonal (JFM) AO Index data are also available since 1950.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, altitude, climate index, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic oscillation, climate indicators, forecast indices, geopotential height, northern hemisphere, polar vortex, climate indices, nam, oscillations, climate change, polar, models, northern hemisphere annular mode, earth science, ceos, arctic oscillation index, northern annular mode, ao, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, geographic region, atmospheric circulation, teleconnections, 
TITLE: N. Standard Geographical Classification, Volume 2, Reference Maps (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: Volume 2, Reference Maps, shows boundaries, names and codes of SGC areas. For information on ordering individual maps sheets, see Census Division and Census Subdivision Reference Maps (92F0149XPB) Catalogue number for printed documents is: 12-572-XPB ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteStatistics Canada encourages other organizations to use the Standard Geographical Classification and related standard areas in their own statistical work in order to improve the comparability and usefulness of statistics generally. Volume 2 contains reference maps showing the locations and boundaries of the standard geographical areas in the Classification. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: lambertc Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, geographical classification, polar, geographic guides, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Global Precise GPS Satellite Ephemerides. ABSTRACT: Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite ephemerides are computed from the data collected at the Canadian Active Control Point (ACP) stations. This data is augmented by up to 44 globally distributed stations of the International GPS Service for Geodynamics (IGS). The GPS satellite ephemerides are typically available within 3 to 6 days following the observations. The ephemerides are provided as daily files (0:00 to 23:45 GPS Time) in the internationally accepted NGS-SP3 format which contains X, Y, Z satellite positions and clock corrections at 15-minute intervals. The files are available in the NAD83(CSRS) reference frame as well as in the International Terrestrial Reference Frame (ITRF).Used with the GPSPACE GPS point positioning program and the GPS Satellite Clock Corrections to provide DGPS accuracies without requiring base station data. Also, using the precise ephemerides in GPS processing will reduce all orbit related errors in GPS baseline determinations to less than 0.1 ppm. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, differential global positioning system, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surveying, eastern hemisphere, reference systems, ephemerides, nova scotia, geodetics, gravity, gps, clocks, canada, cgdi, corrections, canada, new brunswick, southern hemisphere, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, vertical, global, nunavut, equatorial, northwest territories, saskatchewan, satellite, yukon territory, canadian active control system, cacs, vertical location, polar, earth science, ceos, dgps, land surface, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, gpspace, prince edward island, sp3, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Daily Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Elevation Change of the Southern Greenland Ice Sheet from 1978-88. ABSTRACT: Southern Greenland ice sheet elevation change estimates are derived from SEASAT and GEOSAT radar altimetry data from 1978 to 1988. Data are confined to 61-72 deg N, 30-50 deg W, above 1700 m elevation. The addition of GEOSAT Geodetic Mission (GM) data results in twice as many crossover points and 50% greater coverage than previous studies. Coverage above 2000 m elevation is improved to 90%, and about 75% of the area between 1700 m and 2000 m is now covered. Data are in ASCII text format, available via FTP, and consist of elevation change rate (dH dt, cm year) and corresponding error estimates in 50 km grid cells.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, radar altimeters, arctic, usa, noaa, ice sheet elevation, seasat 1, eosdis, greenland, earth science information partners program, north america, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, nsidc daac, parca, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, program in arctic regional climate assessment, usa, nasa, glaciers, ice sheets, geodetic satellite, nasa, ice sheets, geosat, earth observing system data information system, esip, ocean dynamics satellite, geographic region, 
TITLE: Weather data at the Zhongshan station, Antarctica during the 22ed CHINARE in 2005. ABSTRACT: The antarctic Zhongshan weather station of China which was set up in Feb. 1989, located in Larsmann hills, its station number is 89573. The antarctic Zhongshan weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time 02,08,14,20), and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items includes clouds, visibility, weather phenomenon, wind direction, wind speed, temperature, humidity, air pressure, sunlight, soil temperature, precipitation etc. And now, it also observes atmospheric ozone amount and makes site weather forecast for science research.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, wind profiles, air temperature, clouds, precipitation, amd, cn, humidity, air quality, polar, visibility, fixed observation stations, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, antarctica, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, amd, geographic region, aws, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Induction Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica Year 2001. ABSTRACT: The pulsation magnetometer is to measure D and H components of geomagnetic induction variations. As a cooperation project with Newcastle University, Austrilia. The data is shared by boths sides. The data is originally recorded on hardisk and retrieved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, geomagnetism, ampte, irm three-axis fluxgate magnetometer, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, ampte, irm magnetometer, 
TITLE: Alaska PaleoGlacier Atlas: A Geospatial Compilation of Pleistocene Glacier Extents. ABSTRACT: Three decades after the last Alaska-wide compilations of glacial geology (Karlstrom et al., 1964; Coulter et al., 1965), we have coordinated a broadly collaborative effort to create a digital map of reconstructed Pleistocene glaciers. The Alaska PaleoGlacier Atlas is a geospatial summary of Pleistocene glaciation across Alaska. The layers in the atlas depict: 1) the extent of glaciers during the late Wisconsin glaciation (i.e. Last Glacial Maximum, about 20,000 years ago), and 2) the maximum extent reached during the last ca. 3 million years by the northwestern Cordilleran Ice Sheet, ice caps, and valley glaciers. The atlas is targeted for a scale of 1 to 1,000,000 -- suitable for visualization and regional analyses. Former glacier extents are based on decades of field-based mapping, air-photo interpretation, and a variety of dating methods. In all, the first version combines glacial-geologic information from 26 publications and 42 source maps. Revisions will be made and released as time and resources allow. A companion paper (Kaufman and Manley, subm.; part of an INQUA effort for a global atlas with regional reviews) summarizes the glacial-geologic evidence and highlights recent revisions, remaining uncertainties, and implications for paleoclimate forcing. See: "http:  instaar.Colorado.EDU QGISL ak_paleoglacier_atlas apg_overview.html". KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, galciation, geomorphology, periglacial processes, pleistocene glaciers, paleo start date 3,000,000 ybp, cenozoic, arctic, field surveys, paleoclimate, gis, united states of america, wisconsin glaciation, north america, alaska, quaternary, aerial photographs, glacial landforms, processes, land records, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, last glacial maximum, cordilleran ice sheet, erosion, sedimentation, maps, paleo stop date 20,000 ybp, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, glaciers, ice sheets, glacial geology, glaciation, ice sheets, erosion, frozen ground, ice caps, geographic region, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes solar flux and net radiation measurements as recorded by a LI-COR model L1200X silicon pyranometer and a REBS net radiometer, respectively. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, lter, arctic, solar flux, outgoing shortwave radiation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, incoming longwave radiation, antarctica, longwave radiation, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Daily Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Somerset Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected during the course of a regional mapping project on Somerset Island, Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Cardbox files are multi-field databases that accommodate lengthy descriptive text storage. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, somerset island, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Arctic Sea Ice Thickness Climatology. ABSTRACT: Seasonal longterm climatology of sea ice thickness in the arctic digitized by Benjamin Felzer from Bourke and Garrett maps from submarine underice sonar profiles.. KEYWORD: ice extent, polar, maps, usa, ncar, sea ice, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ice depth, thickness, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Permafrost Map of Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of a geo-referenced digital map and attribute data derived from the publication 'Permafrost map of Alaska'. The map is presented at a scale of 1 to 2,500,000 and shows the correlation of physiographic province to presence of permafrost across the state of Alaska. The digital data were prepared under the U.S. Geological Survey Global Change Program, Land Data Systems - Arctic Land Processes Studies for display and analysis of terrain. The line work was captured by hand digitizing the source map, Ferrians, O.J., 1965, Permafrost map of Alaska - U.S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Geologic Investigations Map I-445. Scale 1 to 2,500,000. The digital map was assembled and edited in ARC INFO. The source map projection is polyconic. It is based on the Clarke 1866 ellipsoid with a central meridian of 150 W longitude. The data were geo-referenced from digitizer coordinates to the polyconic projection and then projected into an Albers Equal Area projection. The coastline was taken from the U.S Geological Survey, 1 to 2,000,000 scale Digital Line Graph data (U.S. Geological Survey, 1987). Attributes for the permafrost map were assigned. Metadata documentation was completed in 1996. The map units are closed polygons that are generalized in shape and size. They are defined in terms of their physiographic characteristics and association with permafrost. Each unit differs with respect to all other units and is uniquely identified as follows. 11 Mountainous Area underlain by continuous permafrost 12 Mountainous Area underlain by discontinuous permafrost 13 Mountainous Area underlain by isolated masses of permafrost 21 Lowland and Upland Area underlain by thick permafrost 22 Lowland and Upland Area underlain by moderately thick to thin permafrost 23 Lowland and Upland Area underlain by discontinuous permafrost 24 Lowland and Upland Area underlain by numerous isolated masses of permafrost 25 Lowland and Upland Area underlain by isolated masses of permafrost 26 Lowland and Upland Area generally free of permafrost Use constraints - The U.S. Geological Survey should be acknowledged as the data source in products derived from these data. The data are general in nature and should not be used at a scale larger than 1 to 2,500,000, that of the original map. Users must assume responsibility to determine the usability of this data for their purposes. The use of these data is not restricted and may be interpreted by organizations, agencies, units of government or others; however, they are responsible for its appropriate application. Digital data files are periodically updated. Files are dated and users are responsible for obtaining the latest revisions of the data. Although these data have been processed successfully on a computer system at the U.S. Geological Survey, no warranty expressed or implied is made by the agency regarding the utility of the data on any other system, nor shall the act of distribution constitute any such warranty. A copy of this map is presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, agriculture, usa, nsf, united states of america, discontinuous permafrost, north america, alaska, soils, snow, ice, continuous permafrost, ground-based observations, permafrost extent, global geocryological data system, polar, mapping, mountain permafrost, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 6th CHINARE in 1989-1999. ABSTRACT: 35 52GG planktonic samples were collected from Antarctic.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: MADT - Maps of Absolute Dynamic Topography and Absolute Geostrophic Velocities. ABSTRACT: Contents: gridded sea surface heights above geoid; dynamic topography is the sum of sea level anomaly (SLA) and mean dynamic topography (MDT, Rio05 here) Use: study of the general circulation (ocean gyres ...) Global gridded data (1 3x1 3 on a Mercator grid), available in near-real time and in delayed time in NetCDF format. In delayed time, two types of products are available: - "Ref" (Reference) series: homogeneous datasets based on two satellites (Topex Poseidon, Jason-1 + ERS, Envisat) with the same groundtrack. Sampling is stable in time. - "Upd" (Updated) series: up-to-date datasets with up to four satellites at a given time (adding GFO and or Topex Poseidon on its new orbit). Sampling and Long Wavelength Errors determination are improved, but quality of the series is not homogeneous. Absolute geostrophic velocities are also available for gridded merged data. Regional products with an improved quality are available in local areas ("http:  www.aviso.oceanobs.com html donnees produits hauteurs regional "). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, altimeters, sea level anomalies, arctic, gyres, ers radar altimeter, gfo-1, sea surface topography, physical oceanography, alt (topex), global ocean, environmental satellite, polar, idn_node esrin, cnes, southern ocean, topex, poseidon, pacific ocean, france, cnes, earth science, ceos, general ocean circulation, ra, envisat, sea surface height, ocean, altimeter, oceans, topex radar altimeter, ocean topography experiment, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, jason-1, indian ocean, ocean circulation, geosat follow-on-1, 
TITLE: Axel Heiberg Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected during the course of a regional mapping project on Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Cardbox files are multi-field databases that accommodate lengthy descriptive text storage Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, axel heiberg island, land records, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data. ABSTRACT: The NASA Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) sea ice concentration data set in the polar stereographic projection is derived from the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) and Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) data using the NASA Team algorithm. It is designed to provide a consistent time series of sea ice concentrations (the fraction of ocean area covered by sea ice) spanning the coverage of several passive microwave instruments. To aid in this goal, sea ice algorithm coefficients are changed to reduce differences in sea ice extent and area as estimated using the SMMR and SSM I sensors. The data set currently includes daily and monthly averaged sea ice concentrations derived from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP-F8, -F11 and -F13 SSM I daily brightness temperatures at a grid cell size of 25 x 25 km. The data set begins October 1978 and continues through December 2004. Data are available via FTP. Data files are stored as flat binary data with one byte per pixel. For each data file, a corresponding graphics file in GIF format is provided. These sea ice concentrations are generated by the Oceans and Ice Branch, Laboratory for Hydrospheric Processes at NASA GSFC, using SMMR brightness temperatures that were processed at NASA GSFC and SSM I brightness temperatures that were processed at the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC). Both of these data sets are archived at NSIDC.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, continent, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, polar stereographic, sea ice concentration, arctic, special sensor microwave, imager, sea ice extent, dmsp, dmsp 5d-2, f11, ice, smmr, ssmi, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, nimbus-7, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, sea ice, antarctic, gridded data, polar, amd, us, nsidc daac, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, antarctica, ssm, i, passive microwave, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, esip, geographic region, multiyear sea ice concentration, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: MARKIII-CTD and SBE-25 CTD dataset collected in Prydz Bay and Amery Shelf of Antarctic during the 19th CHINARE in 2002 2003. ABSTRACT: The MarkIII-CTD and SBE-25CTD are made by G.O,Inc., USA and SEA-BIRD ELECTRONICS INC., USA. Data was collected from January 14th, 2003 to February 10th, 2003 in the Prydz Bay of Anatarctic and Amery Ice Shelf.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, sv, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, snow vehicle, amery shelf, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ships, amery ice shelf, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Teleseismic digital waveform records at Baikal Rift Zone, Russia. ABSTRACT: Digital seismic waveforms by portable broadband stations, Baikal Rift Zone, Russia. All the data are available from network library system (POLARIS) in NIPR.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, seismology, arctic, earth science, ceos, eastern europe, russia, geographic region, arctic, jp, europe, baikal rift zone, 
TITLE: National Ice Center Arctic Sea Ice Charts and Climatologies in Gridded Format. ABSTRACT: The U.S. National Ice Center (NIC) is an inter-agency sea ice analysis and forecasting center comprised of Dept. of Commerce NOAA, Dept. of Defense U.S. Navy, and Dept. of Homeland Security U.S. Coast Guard components. Since 1972, NIC has produced Arctic and Antarctic sea ice charts. This data set is an Arctic sea ice concentration climatology derived from the NIC weekly or biweekly operational ice chart time series. The charts used in the climatology are from 1972 through 2004, and the monthly climatology products are median, maximum, minimum, first quartile, and third quartile concentrations, as well as frequency of occurrence of ice at any concentration for 33 year, 10 year, and 5 year periods. These climatologies and the charts from which they are derived are provided in 25 km EASE-Grid (gridded binary). Ice extent can be derived from concentration by summing the number of equal area EASE-Grid cells. GIF browse files are also provided. The climatologies are also made available in a Geographical Information System (GIS) compatible format. NIC charts are produced through the analyses of available in situ, remote sensing, and model data sources. They are generated primarily for mission planning and safety of navigation. NIC charts generally show more ice than do passive microwave derived sea ice concentrations, particularly in the summer when passive microwave algorithms tend to underestimate ice concentration. The record of sea ice concentration from the NIC series is believed to be more accurate than that from passive microwave sensors, especially from the mid-1990s on (see references in the documentation), but it lacks the consistency of some passive microwave time series.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, arctic sea ice, smmr, usa, noaa, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, sea ice, visual observations, avhrr, sea ice stage of development, scatterometers, satellites, polar, models, sar, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ssm, i, synthetic aperture radar, ships, ocean, ols, oceans, operational linescan system, geographic region, sea ice variability, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Monthly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Surface Ozone concentration in Ny-Alesund. ABSTRACT: With an automatic measurement system, the concentration of Ozone in the lower troposphere is continuously monitored.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, ozone, japanese antarctic research expedition, atmospheric chemistry, ipy, ocean, ny-alesund, svalbard, international polar year, atlantic ocean, jare, geographic region, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Data set of the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 8th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1991 1992. ABSTRACT: From December of 1991 to March of 1992, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.Total 3 cruises were investigated:Shanghai-Hobart,Hobart-Prydz Bay,Prydz Bay-Fremantle.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, salinometers, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, thermometers, amd, global ocean, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Water Vapor Density. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes water vapor density data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, amd, us, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, atmospheric water vapor, usa, nsf, water vapor density, long-term ecological research, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, humidity, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Canada Flight Supplement. ABSTRACT: The Canada Flight Supplement (CFS) is a joint civil military publication. It contains information on Canadian and North Atlantic land aerodromes and heliports and is used for the planning and safe conduct of air operations. It is available in English or in bilingual format. Data for the province of Quebec and the National Capital Region are presented in French in the bilingual tumble edition. This publication is a perfect bound book containing: 1. General Section With tables, legends and associated information pertinent to interpretation of the supplement. 2. Aerodrome Directory Data and sketches for Canadian aerodromes and heliports and selected aerodromes in the North Atlantic. 3. Planning Information for flight planning, characteristics of airspace, chart updating, flight restrictions, IFR routes, airway intersections and chart distributors. 4. Radio Navigation and Communications Data for radio navigation aids and communication facilities. 5. Military Flight procedures and data, including sections on procedures for flight in the USA, North Atlantic and Alaska, air ground communications and military training routes areas. 6. Emergency Emergency procedures.Used by civil and military pilots for the planning and safe conduct of air operations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome location indicators, Radio navigation aid indicators, Flight Information indicators Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, terrain elevation, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, terrain slope gradient, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, northern europe, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, buildings, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, bermuda, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, greenland, communications, united states of america, saskatchewan, europe, polar, earth science, ceos, iceland, land surface, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, prince edward island, infrastructure, atlantic ocean, azores, 
TITLE: Cosmogenic Radionuclide in Ice Cores. ABSTRACT: This project is intended to provide a record of cosmogenic radionuclides, 10Be (half-life = 1.5 Myr) and 36Cl (0.30 Myr), concentrations in the Siple Dome ice cores. It is particularly instructive to compare the Antarctic record with the detailed Arctic record that we are measuring as part of the GISP2 project. We cut annual samples of the "A" core from the surface to 48 m corresponding to the years 1995 AD to 1698 AD. The 10Be measurements have been nearly completed. The 36Cl chemistry was completed at Berkeley. AMS 36Cl measurements and Cl concentration measurements at LLNL are still unfinished. Below 54 m, we coordinated our sample collection with the continuous ion measurements. Although we received more than 800 melt water samples, more than 25% of these samples were not suitable for our work, either because of partial loss of solution during transport, unclear depth information, or because the sample mass was too small. We have selected over 600 samples, including some uncertainties of sample documentation that cover less than 75% of total depth of core. Presently, chemical separation and purification of Be and Cl for all samples has been completed. 10Be AMS measurements are also nearly completed. Although Cl sample preparation has been completed, about 90% of the 36Cl measurements and Cl concentration measurements at LLNL need to be performed. Thus, the data are still preliminary and fragmental. Each melted ice sample was passed through a 30 m Millipore filters before chemical separation of Be and Cl. A photograph of each filter was taken and digitized for archival storage. These digitized pictures will be available for distribution to other investigators. This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. OPP-0126343.. KEYWORD: continent, accelerator mass spectrometers, ams, arctic, cosmogenic nuclide, paleoclimate, ion chromatographs, usa, nsf, isotopes, solar activity, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, siple dome, ice sheets, cosmic rays, waiscores, west antarctic ice sheet cores, sun-earth interactions, amd, ice core records, sunspots, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Characteristics of Preferred Foraging and Nesting for Tundra-Breeding Shorebirds. ABSTRACT: Purpose: Data from this project will be used to identify the most valuable habitats and regions for shorebirds, guide development activities, and estimate population size in areas of special interest. Abstract: The North Slope of Alaska is currently the scene of intensive oil exploration activities. Wells have been drilled recently in several previously untouched areas, and more activity is expected. The region is renowned for its shorebird populations, yet little quantitative data are available at present to help guide development or provide a baseline for determining effects of these activities during the coming decades. This project will involve habitat delineation using geographic-information-system techniques and then ground surveys to count breeding shorebirds in each habitat. Methodology: Wells have been drilled recently in several previously untouched areas, and more activity is expected.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, alpine, tundra, forest and rangeland ecosystem science center, ecological dynamics, arctic, base funds, birds, north slope of alaska, united states of america, brd, north america, alaska, 5001385, ecosystem science, polar, tundra-breeding shorebirds, earth science, ceos, ak, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, population dynamics, 73-10, animals, vertebrates, species, population interactions, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Scharffenbergbotnen surface conductivity. ABSTRACT: Surface conductivity (Electronator) measurements of the main blue ice area in Scharffenbergbotnen. Dataset contains latitude, longitude and a voltage (proportional to the conductivity). Positions are mainly from handheld GPS, but some are from differential GPS (DGPS).. KEYWORD: polar, electrical properties, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, gps, global positioning system, amd, fi, electronators, amd, snow, ice chemistry, geographic region, snow, ice, 
TITLE: Northern Oil and Gas Dispositions. ABSTRACT: Digital boundaries for existing exploration licences, significant discovery licences, production licences, former permits, former leases and the Norman Wells Proven Area are available for download. The digital boundaries provided have been generalized and may contain errors. Users should be alert to limitations with respect to resolution. The digital files are provided in Arcview format (Rights.shp). Attribute data can be found in the dBase file Rights.dbf, which contains: Title Id, Representative Name, Region, Date of Issuance, Expiry Date, and Area (hectares). These files are updated on a regular basis but may not be current on a particular day. Users should note that the legal descriptions of these rights using grid and section number as prescribed by the Canada Oil and Gas Lands Regulations are to be found in the title documents, copies of which may be obtained on application to the Rights Administrator. Users should also note that the digital file is incomplete for Hudson Bay: outlines of old oil and gas permits in this area will be added in due course. Exploration is not active in this area. Queries regarding specific licences should be addressed to the Rights Administrator, Northern Oil and Gas Branch, telephone (819)953- The name(s) of the Representative(s) Owner(s) depicted in these data may not reflect the true or current interests held. Please contact the Registrar at this office if you require accurate licence ownership information.To provide current petroleum rights information and areas of exploration interests. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD 27 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, polar, natural resources, arctic, earth science, ceos, northern offshore, nunavut, beaufort sea, northwest territories, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, northern hemisphere, canada, ocean, north america, geographic region, petroleum, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Standard Mapped Product Suite. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color, photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html SeaWiFS acquires approximately 15 pole-to-pole orbital swaths of data per day, and approximately 90% of the ocean surface is scanned every two days. Visible and near infrared raw radiance counts are collected (Level 1A data) and are converted to geophysical parameters (Level 2 data). Level 3 (9 km) data processing involves both temporal and spatial binning and utilizes Level 2 Global Area Coverage (GAC) (4 km) data as input. The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection (and 4 km for NDVI products). The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Other SMI products: -SeaWiFS Level 3 PAR refers to false-colored images of Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) from the sun 400-700 nm. For additional information about the PAR algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf -SeaWiFS NDVI refers to images of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index - an indicator of chlorophyll distributions on land (NDVI) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, arctic, eos, aerosol optical depth, thickness, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, vegetation index, par, ocean chemistry, biosphere, aerosol radiance, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, vegetation, global, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol reflectance, ndvi, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Global Paleogeographic Views of Earth History - Late Precambrian to Recent. ABSTRACT: [From Global Paleogeographic Views of Earth History - Late Precambrian to Recent, by Ronald C. Blakey, "http:  jan.ucc.nau.edu ~rcb7 globaltext2.html"] The globes presented in this series show how Earth may have appeared over the last 600 million years (Ma). The global views were prepared from rectangular projections drawn at a resolution of 3000x1500 pixels for each of the 26 time slices (small files of the rectangular maps are also included). Topography was "cloned" from digital elevation maps of modern Earth from the USGS. Colors were adjusted to portray climate and vegetation for the given time and location. The modern Earth was also drawn in this manner using a color pallet derived from satellite images created by ARC Science of Loveland, Colorado. The geologic data was gathered from the references listed below. The completed rectangular images were then wrapped on a sphere and saved as jpg files.. KEYWORD: solid earth, proterozoic, arctic ocean, geomorphology, silurian, paleozoic, arctic, marine geophysics, paleogeography, precambrian, ordovician, maps, topography, pennsylvanian, plate tectonics, landforms, bathymetry, seafloor topography, lithospheric plate motion, ocean, paleo start date, oceans, geographic region, jurassic, folds, paleotectonics, cenozoic, global, mississippian, mesozoic, geology, devonian, paleo stop date, quaternary, triassic, seafloor topography, plate boundaries, tectonics, polar, earth science, carboniferous, land surface, phanerozoic, permian, usa, nasa, earth history, tectonic landforms, processes, continental drift, cretaceous, cambrian, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Massachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridge and retrieved by the Library software and finally saved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, digisondes, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica ,Year 2001. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Massachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridge and retrieved by the Library software and finally saved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, f layer, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, e layer, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ionogram, zhongshan station, radio wave reflection, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, ionospheric drift, ionosonde, amd, ground stations, geographic region, d layer, 
TITLE: Offshore Oil and Gas. ABSTRACT: This meteorological and oceanographic data was collected by the oil and gas industry or its contractors during Canadian offshore hydrocarbon exploration between 1979 and 1993 and was a cooperative project between MEDS and the National Energy Board (NEB).This database presents environmental observations (ex. winds, ice, etc.) from historical offshore oil and gas sites in the Canadian area of interest.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, marine environmental data service, neb, northern hemisphere, meds, north america, geobrowser, geoportal, polar, atmospheric phenomena, earth science, ceos, marine environment monitoring, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Dissolved Al in the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Sampling and Analytical Methodology: Samples were taken using 24 internally Teflon-coated PVC 12 litre GO-FLO Samplers (General Oceanics Inc.) mounted on an all-titanium frame. This frame was connected to a 17.7 mm diameter Kevlar hydrowire with seven independent internal signal conductor cables (Cousin Trestec S.A.) and controlled from onboard. Each GO-FLO sampler had a special ultraclean all-teflon PTFE valve (Cole Parmer; PN A-06392-31) installed. Samples for trace metal analysis were collected from the GO-FLO bottles in a class 100 clean room environment. The water was filtered over a 0.2 m filter cartridge (Sartrobran-300, Sartorius) under pressure (1.5 atm) of (in-line prefiltered) nitrogen gas exerted via a special connector instead of the regular air bleeding valve at the top of each GO-FLO sampler. Sub-samples for Al were taken in cleaned LDPE sample bottles (125 mL) from each GO-FLO bottle. All sample bottles were rinsed five times with the sample seawater. Analyses of dissolved Al were based on a method developed by Resing and Measures (1994). Samples were stored in a refrigerator (4 C) and analysed usually within 24 h after sampling but always within 36 h. Samples were acidified at least 1 h before analyses with 12 M ultraclean HCl (Baseline Hydrochloric Acid, Seastar Chemicals Inc.) to a pH of 1.8. In a flow injection system the samples were buffered inline to a pH of 4.8  0.1 with ultraclean 0.6 M ammonium acetate buffer. This buffer was produced by diluting a saturated solution of ammonium acetate crystals to an 0.6 M solution with MQ. The pH was subsequently adjusted to 6.7 with ultraclean ammonium hydroxide. This was produced by bubbling 0.2 m filtered high purity ammonia gas through MQ water. The buffered sample was pre-concentrated for 240 s on a Toyopearl AF-Chelate 650M (TosoHaas, Germany) column. Hereafter the column was rinsed for 60 s with MQ water to remove interfering salts. The Al was subsequently eluted from the column with 0.16 M HCl (Suprapure, Merck) during 250 s. The eluate of Al in HCl entered the reaction stream which consisted of a lumogallion (Pfaltz & Bauer) solution in 4 M ammonium acetate buffer. The 4 M buffer was produced similar to the 0.6 M buffer (see above), but with the pH adjusted to 6.8  0.1 and the lumogallion was a 4.8 mM solution in MQ. The mixing of the HCl and buffer results in a reaction pH of 5.7  0.1 at which an Al-Lumogallion chelate complex is formed which can be detected by its fluorescence. The complex was mixed in a 10 m reaction coil placed in a water bath of 50 C. Hereafter a 2.5% Brij-35 (Merck) solution in MQ was added to increase the sensitivity (Resing and Measures, 1994) and mixed in a 3 m mixing coil. Afterwards the emission of the fluorescent complex was detected on a FIA-lab PMT-FL detector with a 510 until 580 nm emission filter and a 480 until 490 nm excitation filter. Concentrations of Al were calculated in nanomol.L-1 from the peak heights. The system was calibrated using standard additions from a 5000 nM Al stock solution (Fluka) to filtered acidified seawater of low Al concentration that was collected in the Arctic Ocean. A six-point calibration line (0, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16 nM standard additions) and blank determination were made every day. The 3 lowest points (0, 1 and 2 nM) of the calibration line were measured in triplicate and the 3 highest points (4, 8 and 16 nM) in duplicate in order to add more weight to the lower part of the calibration line. The blank was determined by plotting the signals of increasing pre-concentration times (30, 60, 120, 210 and 300 seconds) of the water also used for the calibration. A line was fitted through these data points and the intercept of the line taken as the blank, which was usually below 0.2 nM. If the blank was greater than 0.2 nM, the analysis run was stopped. Subsequently the system was cleaned and the blank reanalysed with freshly made sampling buffer until the blank value was below the 0.2 nM limit. The limit of detection, defined as three times the standard deviation of the lowest concentration observed, was 0.15 nM. The FIA system was cleaned every day by rinsing with a 0.5 M HCl solution. Data Processing: A standard was measured in triplicate every day. This standard was a sub-sample of a 25 L volume of filtered seawater that was taken at the beginning of the cruise in the Barents Sea. The relative standard deviation of the replicate analysis seawater sample that was analysed 27 times on different days in triplicate was 3.19%. The relative standard deviation on single days was on average 2%. The average Al concentration of this standard was 4.93 nM and the deviation from this average for a given measuring day was used as a correction factor. To verify whether this was decreasing the inter-daily variability in the dataset, every day a sample which was collected and measured the previous measuring day, was analysed once again. The deviation between the concentrations measured on the different days decreased from 3.6% to 2.8%, indicating the data correction is beneficial. Moreover, samples of the SAFe intercalibration program (Johnson et al., 2007) were analysed in triplicate (Table 1). It appears that the Al concentration in bottle S #252 is slightly higher than the concentration for surface (S) water found by Brown and Bruland (2008), but not statistically different. Bottle S #425 is in almost perfect agreement, as is bottle D2 #3 for deep (D2) water from 1000m. The dataset was scanned for obvious outliers and these have been quality flagged with the number 4. Some samples gave anomalous nutrient results for the intended depth and were assumed to have been closed at the wrong depth and quality flagged with the number 8. All other values are assumed to be correct and flagged with the number 0. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, ocean chemistry, dissolved aluminium, geotraces, arctic, earth science, aluminum, r, v polarstern, flow injection analysis, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, trace elements, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, international polar year, oceans, geographic region, fia, 
TITLE: NOAA HRPT Data Collected at Spitzbergen. ABSTRACT: The available dataset contains mainly NOAA-9 overpasses received by a mobile HRPT receiving station that was positioned at Spitzbergen (78.12N, 15.40E). Due to the high latitude, parts of up to 14 orbits were received per day. The coverage of 60-70 degrees north could not be achieved over the whole longitude range. Data are available on 6250 BPI tapes and include counts and histograms for AVHRR channels 1-5, calibration coefficients (slope and intercepts) for AVHRR channels 3-5, and undecoded TIP data. Not all data are of good quality. B W negative transparencies are generated for all overpasses collected, showing AVHRR channels 1,2,3, and 4; each pixel available may be resolved. Two overpasses per day, app. 0530Z and 1130Z, were calibrated and remapped onto a polar stereographic projection in the vicinity of Spitzbergen and B W transparencies were produced containing images of reflectivities in AVHRR channels 2 and 3 as well as temperatures in channel 4. These are published as a data report.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, polar, idn_node esrin, dlr, infrared wavelengths, visible imagery, germany, dlr, arctic, earth science, ceos, infrared imagery, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, tovs, noaa-10, visible wavelengths, noaa-9, ocean, spectral, engineering, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, avhrr, tiros operational vertical sounder, 
TITLE: Fluxgate Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station in Year 2004. ABSTRACT: The Fluxgate magnetometer is to measure relative geomagnetic variations at 3 dimensions, i.e., x, y and z components. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institutes.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetic field, fluxgate magnetometers, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, geomagnetism, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Database of Benthic Macrofaunal Biomass and Productivity Measurements for the Eastern Canadian Continental Shelf, Slope and Adjacent Areas. ABSTRACT: Measurements of biomass and productivity of seabed macrobenthic and megabenthic organisms, from studies in eastern North America from New England to the Canadian Arctic dating from 1954 to 2000, have been assembled into a comprehensive, georeferenced, database. Information sources include primary publications, technical reports and unpublished data from scientific studies, commercial fisheries surveys, and monitoring and baseline studies carried out for offshore petroleum exploration. Supporting information and study synopses are also included. The database is compatible with existing electronic databases within Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO), and is intended to be made accessible via the internet. The current study has been carried out as part of an initiative to map biomass and productivity of benthic communities on the continental shelf of Eastern Canada, with a particular focus on relationships with surficial geology and depth, to support research initiatives within Fisheries and Oceans Canada dealing with ecosystems on the Scotian Shelf and Georges Bank. An additional objective, however, is to make the data accessible from the internet, as part of DFO&#039;s ongoing data collection and management activities.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, gcmd, crustaceans, gomodp, mid-latitude, arthropods, echinoderms, abundance, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, marine biodiversity, none, distribution, northern hemisphere, north america, vertical location, gulf of maine, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, weight, benthic animals, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, cmb-bio portal, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: IPY-372 - Polarview information products. ABSTRACT: Polar View delivers a range of environmental information services for the polar regions derived primarily from satellite imagery and data. The project aims to coordinate delivery of these information products direct to users. Services include enhanced sea ice information (charts and forecasts) as well as ice-edge and iceberg monitoring data. We also provide monitoring services for lake and river ice, snow cover maps and glacier monitoring and assessment. any services are delivered in near real time and are readily accessible via the Internet.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, polar, 60 deg s, arctic, earth science, ceos, ice, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, ipy, ocean, international polar year, amd, uk, amd, 50 deg n, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, satellite pictures, 
TITLE: Downwelling surface radiative fluxes at Jan Mayen. ABSTRACT: Downwelling surface radiative fluxes observed at the meteorological station at Jan Mayen Island in the Greenland Sea. Measurements are made using Kipp and Zonen CMP21 and CGR4 pyranometers and pyrgeometers. Daily maintenance is performed by the meteorological personnel at the station. Data are averaged over the last minute and the time is set to UTC. This data set has been collected with support from the Norwegian Research Council. This data set has been collected with support from the Norwegian Research Council. The quality control focus on the radiative parameters, thus sensor temperatures may contain errors.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, shortwave radiation, radiative, arctic, earth science, surface_net_downward_longwave_flux, surface_downwelling_shortwave_flux, greenland sea, arctic, no, longwave radiation, ipy, ocean, net radiation, flux, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Into the Arctic -- Information and Educational Activities for Studying Climate. ABSTRACT: 'Into the Arctic' contains educational materials about climate and climate history in the Arctic that use real data and questions from the Greenland Ice Sheet Project Two (GISP2). Beginning in 1993, scientists from all over the world participated in the GISP2 project to drill through 3,000 meters of ice in Greenland, and discovered a history of the world's climate. Inspired by the research results from GISP2, 'Into the Arctic' offers instructional materials and activities for teachers to use in the many contexts of their daily teaching routines. Its unique feature is that it provides data collected and used by research scientists, and it provides students with the questions scientists grapple with in their research. There are no right or wrong answers. Students are presented with the data, and they are free to suggest answers to the questions posed. Lessons and activities are designed for use by secondary through lower-level college students studying Earth science, geography, history, social studies or chemistry. Information and activities are divided into four sections: Climate, Climate Change, El Nino, and the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2. The subjects selected range from the broad (Climate and Climate Change) to the more specific (El Nino and the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2) to provide the reader with background in Earth science that can then be applied using broadly related case studies.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, greenhouse gases, ice core air bubbles, el nino, education, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, proxy data, climate variation, usa, noaa, electrical conductivity measurement, arctic system science, ecm, gisp2, north america, isotopes, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, climate change, arctic system science data coordination center, glaciers, ice sheets, opp-9321416, atmospheric chemistry, greenland ice sheet project 2, global warming, chlorofluorocarbons, greenland ice cap, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, dust, ash, smoke, arcss, opp9321416, nsf, continent, arcss, gisp2, aerosols, solar radiation budget, volcanic deposits, paleoclimate, arcss069, greenland, particulate matter, greenland ice sheet project ii, ions, cloud condensation nuclei, snow, ice, polar, carbon dioxide, ice cores, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, climate, adcc, earth's atmosphere, k-12, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ice sheets, educational activities, national science foundation, ice depth, thickness, ice core records, oxygen isotopes, climate research, 
TITLE: Modeled Daily Thaw Depth and Frozen Ground Depth. ABSTRACT: This data set contains modeled daily thaw depth and freezing depth for the Arctic terrestrial drainage basin. Thaw and freezing depths were calculated over the study area with a resolution of 25 km x 25 km. Data extend from September 1998 through December 2000. A finite-difference model for one-dimensional heat conduction with phase change calculates daily thaw and freezing depths, based on data of snow water equivalent, soil temperature, soil dry-bulk density, and soil water content. Data are in space-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, polar, models, active layer, soil moisture, water content, ggd, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, freeze, thaw, usa, noaa, seasonally frozen ground, soil bulk density, frozen ground, thaw depth, geographic region, soils, arctic drainage basin, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, freezing depth, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Bulk Richardson Values. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes Bulk Richardson Values. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_blkr.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_blkr_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_blkr_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, wind shear, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, bulk richardson numbers, brn, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, brv, earth science, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, bulk richardson values, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, vertical wind motion, lawn, 
TITLE: 1990 Beaufort Ambient Seismo-Acoustics Beneath Ice Cover. ABSTRACT: This experiment was part of an ONR (Office of Naval Research) sponsored effort to look at seismic noise propogating under an ice sheet. A set of 1 Hz and a set of 5 second seismometers were recorded on an ice sheet in the Beaufort Sea in early March, 1990 while a second set of 1 Hz seismometers was recorded onshore at Deadhorse, Alaska. Continuous data at 8 sps were recorded for a period of approximately two weeks.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, iris, program for array seismic studies of the continental lithosphere, seismology, earth science, seismo-acoustics, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, iris-gsn, united states of america, ocean, north america, alaska, passcal, seismic surface waves, basic, seismic body waves, ice cover, incorporated research institutions for seismology network - global seismographic network, 
TITLE: SAGE III Ozone Loss and Validation Experiment (SOLVE II) Quick-Look Data. ABSTRACT: The SAGE III Ozone Loss and Validation Experiment (SOLVE II) is a measurement campaign designed to examine the processes controlling ozone levels at mid- to high latitudes. Measurements will be made in the Arctic high-latitude region in winter using the NASA DC-8 aircraft, as well as balloon platforms and ground-based instruments. The mission will also acquire correlative data needed to validate the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment (SAGE) III satellite measurements that will be used to quantitatively assess high-latitude ozone loss. SOLVE is co-sponsored by the Upper Atmosphere Research Program (UARP), Atmospheric Effects of Aviation Project (AEAP), Atmospheric Chemistry Modeling and Analysis Program (ACMAP), and Earth Observing System (EOS) of NASA's Earth Science Enterprise (ESE) as part of the validation program for the SAGE III instrument. The SOLVE II mission will be conducted from Kiruna, Sweden. Some of the SOLVE II Quick-Look data include: - ozone Lidar measurements. - POAM III daily ozone, NO2, and water vapor contours - POAM III polar stratospheric cloud (PSC) data, and daily polar vortex plots - Airborne DIAL data - Stratospheric aerosol lidar measurements at Nyalesund, Sweeden See: "http:  cloud1.arc.nasa.gov solveII data.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, light detection and ranging, arctic, nasa er-2, nitrogen dioxide, sage iii, polar stratospheric clouds, north america, sweden, humidity, polar ozone loss, stratospheric aerosol and gas experiment iii, nitrogen compounds, sounding rockets, northern europe, meteor-3m, atmospheric water vapor, systeme probatoire pour l'observation de la terre-4, atmospheric chemistry, spot-4, ocean, water vapor, photochemistry, solve, geographic region, continent, psc, aerosols, differential absorption lidar, balloons, north atlantic ocean, ozone, polar ozone and aerosol measurement iii, greenland, solve ii, scandinavia, polar vortex, lidar, aerosol extinction, europe, dial, polar, ozonesondes, sage iii ozone loss and validation experiment ii, earth science, oxygen compounds, rocketsondes, sage iii ozone loss and validation experiment, usa, nasa, atmospheric circulatioan, kiruna, sweden, nasa earth resources-2, poam iii, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Nimbus-7 SMMR Derived Monthly Global Snow Cover and Snow Depth. ABSTRACT: The data set consists of monthly global snow cover and snow depth derived from Nimbus-7 SMMR data for 1978 through 1987. The SMMR data are interpolated for spatial and temporal gaps, and averaged for display in polar stereographic projection. Maps are based on six-day average brightness temperature data from the middle week of each month. Data are placed into 1 2 degree latitude by 1 2 degree longitude grid cells uniformly subdividing a polar stereographic map according to the geographic coordinates of the center of the radiometers' fields of view. Overlapping data from separate orbits in the same six-day period are averaged to give a single brightness temperature assumed to be at the cell's center. Oceans and bays are masked so that only microwave data for land areas are displayed. Comparisons of SMMR snow cover maps with previous maps produced by NOAA NESDIS and US Air Force Global Weather Center indicate that the total snow covered area derived from SMMR is usually about ten percent less than that measured by the earlier products, because passive microwave sensors often can't detect shallow dry snow less than about 5 cm deep. Snow depths are comparable, showing SMMR results to be especially good for uniform snow covered areas such as the Canadian high plains and Russian steppes. Heavily forested and mountainous areas tend to mask the microwave snow signatures, and SMMR snow depth derivations are less reliable in those areas. Formerly distributed by NASA GSFC NSSDC and NASA Pilot Land Data System (PLDS), these data are now available via ftp from NSIDC.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, smmr, global, usa, noaa, eosdis, nimbus-7, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, snow cover, north america, south america, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, radiometers, polar, amd, us, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, earth observing system data information system, snow, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program (ARM). ABSTRACT: The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program's primary objective is to test and improve General Circulation Model (GCM) parameterizations of clouds and their effect on the radiative energy balance. The ARM Program focuses on six research areas: 1) aerosols, 2) clouds, 3) longwave radiation, 4) shortwave radiation, 5) surface energy exchange (or flux), and 6) atmospheric state. Meteorology data from the North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean Cloud and Radiation Testbed (CART) site at Barrow, Alaska include wind speed, wind direction, air temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, visibility, and precipitation for the atmospheric column above the site. Radiation measurements at the site include longwave and shortwave radiation, including infrared and solar radiation. Solar radiation data include total daily solar radiation, direct-beam normal irradiance, downwelling hemispheric diffuse irradiance, and downwelling hemispheric irradiance. Infrared radiation data include radiance spectra ensemble (1800-3020 cm-1 and 520-1800 cm-1), mean radiances for short- and longwave wavenumbers, downwelling hemispheric infrared irradiance, longwave scene radiance spectral averages (AERI Ch1), longwave scene variability spectral averages (AERI Ch1), and net radiation. Data are available at http:  www.arm.gov docs data.html . The ARM measurements are aggregated together in data files. A data file usually contains a time series of one or more measurements for a known time interval and a single location. Most data are stored in netCDF format. Some data files also contain one or more measurements distributed over a region from a single time (e.g., satellite images); these data are stored in HDF format.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, ggd, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, precipitation, united states of america, north america, alaska, net radiation, humidity, arm, ground-based observations, surface winds, global geocryological data system, polar, surface pressure, barrow, alaska, us, meteorology, atmospheric radiation measurement project, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, outgoing longwave radiation, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, radiation, infrared radiation, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, 
TITLE: Antarctic Surface Temperature and Pressure Data, CDIAC NDP-032. ABSTRACT: This package contains monthly-mean surface temperature and station or sea-level pressure data for 29 meteorological stations on Antarctica. Of these 29 stations, 18 are considered to be primary stations. At four of the stations in the Antarctic Peninsula region (Faraday, Bellinghausen, Esperenza, and Rothera Point), data records from neighboring sites with records of short duration were merged into single station records. The first version of this database was compiled at the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) of University of East Anglia, Norwich, United Kingdom. The database extended through 1988 and was made available in 1989 by the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) as a Numeric Data Package (NDP), NDP-032. This update of the database includes data through early 1999 for most stations (through 2000 for a few), and also includes all available mean monthly maximum and minimum temperature data. For many stations this means that over 40 years of data are now available, enough for many of the trends associated with recent warming to be more thoroughly examined. These temperature and pressure data were assembled primarily from the World Weather Records (WWR) and Monthly Climatic Data for the World (MCDW) volumes for 1951-1960 and 1961-1970. Data records from these sources were supplemented with data from additional sources described in the package. All the assembled data were checked for quality and long-term homogeneity using inter-station comparison techniques. The assessment of the long-term homogeneity of the records was done by comparing the records of two or three neighboring stations. Due to the distances between the stations, this assessment could only be adequately done for stations in the Antarctic Peninsula region and along the main coast of the continental area. Those stations outside these regions were checked only for major errors. Greater details about the inter-station comparison technique are provided in Jones and Limbert (1987). All CDIAC numerical data packages include copies of pertinent literature discussing the data, summaries discussing the background, source and scope of the data, as well as applications limitations and restrictions of the data. More information on this data set can be found at: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov epubs ndp ndp032 ndp032.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, ocean temperature, ground stations, sea surface temperature, meteorological stations, polar, amd, us, surface, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, maximum, minimum temperature, antarctica, ndp-032, atmospheric pressure, climatology, monthly data, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Barrow Area Information Database (BAID) Geospatial Data Sets, Barrow, AK, USA. ABSTRACT: This data collection is comprised of geospatial data for the Barrow, Alaska, USA, region. These data were compiled by Nuna Technologies and Arctic Ecology Lab at Michigan State University under contract to the Barrow Arctic Science Consortium (BASC) to facilitate research in the Barrow area. The collection is termed the Barrow Area Information Database (BAID). Data currently available include imagery (aerial photographs, Landsat), and shapefiles showing locations of administrative units (adjacent federal lands, village districts, zoning, tax parcels, and the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation boundary), and research sites (the NOAA-CMDL clean air sector). Metadata meeting Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) standards accompany each data set. These data may be viewed in the BAID-Internet Map Server (BAID-IMS), a project developed under the Barrow Area Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI) initiative, coordinated by the Digital Working Group (DWG) of the BASC. This project was funded as part of the SDI effort. The BASC received funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF Award OPP-0004401: Supplemental Request for the BAID-IMS Prototype) and the US Geological Survey (USGS Award Number 03HQAG0177: Don't Duck Metadata - Metadata Outreach). This collection will be expanded as metadata are documented for additional data sets. Other data that will be available in shapefile format include other administrative boundaries, geodetic control points, topography, Digital Elevation Models (DEMs), hydrography, vegetation, soils, permafrost, biologic data (nesting sites, migration routes), infrastructure (pipelines, roads, buildings, telecommunications) as well as other historic and extant research study areas (for example, sampling points, bore holes, transects).. KEYWORD: solid earth, geomorphology, federal geographic data committee, arctic, geospatial data, field surveys, visible radiance, usa, noaa, arcss400, north america, alaska, boundaries, spectral, engineering, north slope, human dimensions, infrared radiance, land cover, ground-based observations, barrow, satellites, infrared wavelengths, maps, topography, land use, land cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, tax, office of polar programs, opp, radar imagery, fgdc, landforms, visible wavelengths, baid, buildings, geographic region, digital working group, land use classes, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, parcels, landsat-7, continent, visible imagery, barrow area information database, alaskan north slope, lot, land ownership, cameras, usa, nsf, united states of america, clearinghouse, wainwright, enhanced thematic mapper plus, polar, basc, etm+, image mosaic, barrow arctic science consortium, earth science, ceos, land surface, landscape patterns, administrative divisions, adcc, radar, atqasuk, coastal landforms, processes, infrastructure, point barrow, landscape, 
TITLE: Koyukuk National Wildlife Refuge Landcover, Topography, Etc.; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Digital data is given on the Koyukuk National Wildlife Refuge in west-central Alaska. The data set contains information on land status, lake and streams digitized at 1:63,360, and wildlife ditribution digitized at 1:250,000. Also included are digitized land cover, slope, a scale of elevation, and aspect from EROS Data Center; data are digitized from U.S. Geological Survey quadrangle maps and updated periodically. The amount of storage required is unknown. Data are available on 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, unlabeled, AMS variable block, or DLG 3 fixed block in binary or ASCII, variable record length tape, 5 1 4 inch floppy disk, and cassette. Subsets and custom formats are available. The data dictionary has been completed for this record. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, biological classification, land status, arctic, aedd, dem, rivers, stream habitat, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, soil classification, hydrology, topography, streams, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, surface water, landforms, animals, vertebrates, alaska directory, mammals, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, koyukuk, landcover, vegetation, geology, land use, united states of america, land, lakes, soils, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, koyukuk natl. wildlife refuge, land surface, rivers, streams, 
TITLE: Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment. ABSTRACT: Several projects are underway to quantitatively model the current and potential changes in the carbon budgets of Canadian forests due to climate change. Information is limited for many of the processes being modeled, particularly those related to soil processes. Of major importance is the rate of litter decomposition which is lacking in extent and length for most forest ecosystems. To overcome this data deficiency, a group of researchers from across Canada has been assembled to conduct a long-term decomposition experiment. The Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment (CIDET), is a cooperative study by 20 researchers from the Canadian Forest Service, universities and provincial ministries, with a main objective to investigate the long-term rates of litter decomposition and nutrient mineralization over a broad range of forested ecoclimatic regions in Canada. The study, established in 1992, involves the preparation of almost 11,000 litter bags containing samples of 12 standard litter types. Ten sets were then placed in each of four replicate plots on 21 sites (18 upland and 3 wetland) representing a range of forested ecoclimatic regions. Each year for ten years, one set of bags is removed per plot and analyzed for weight loss and carbon, nitrogen and phosphorous content. Regression techniques will be used to establish the relationship between decay rates, substrate quality and climate, the second main objective of the experiment. The final three objectives of the experiment will be addressed through the use of subsets of samples and data to test for the relative importance of site factors and microclimate on decay rates; test for the influence of site moisture regimes on decay rates; test specific hypotheses on the observed pattern of litter decomposition. In addition to the 23 litter types characterized for nutrient content and organic C fractions as part of CIDET, 14 other litter types have been characterized as part of an NSERC funded study and the complete set of chemical data from both studies has been published. Analysis of all litter types and characterization of the chemical proximate fractions of selected litter types is continuing. Research results on measures of litter quality, a comparison of third year results, controls on litter decomposition and effects of climate change are available through the network resource site. The successful establishment of CIDET complements similar studies underway in the United States and Europe. Together these studies will increase our understanding of the relationship between climate, litter quality and decay processes. Proponents of the U.S. study have expressed interest in using CIDET results for testing models presently under development and methods will be compared with a long-term study being conducted in Edinburgh, U.K.To provide data on the long-term rates on litter decomposition and nutrient mineralization for a range of forested ecoclimatic regions in Canada. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, vegetation, decomposition, air temperature, none, nunavut, northwest territories, forest composition, vegetation structure, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, soil temperature, soils, polar, models, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, biosphere, quebec, alberta, tundra, ecosystem functions, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, litter characteristics, deciduous vegetation, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Marine Mammals Sightings Database; NMML. ABSTRACT: Marine mammal sightings and sighting efforts are included in this data set. Includes position, time, date, weather conditions, number of animals sighted, species sighted, distance and angle to sighting, behavior of animals, water temperature, and comments. These digital data sets are in RIM RIbase format for DOS. The data were collected in international waters of the North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, usa, noaa, alaska coast, noaa, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, north pacific ocean, pelagic habitat, mammal population, maps, charts, biosphere, antarctica, regional threatened species, nmml, animals, vertebrates, alaska directory, coast, ships, benthic habitat, mammals, ocean, alaska coastal waters, animal, amd, gosic, geographic region, continent, marine, united states of america, mammal, coastal habitat, marine mammal, antarctic, wildlife, bering sea, polar, amd, us, pacific ocean, marine mammals, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, pacific, environment, wildlife distribution, coastal alaska, bering sea, species, population interactions, fish, endangered species, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Meridian Scanning Photometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004. ABSTRACT: The Auroral Meridian Scanning Photometer is used to measure the absolute intensity of aurora brightness along the geomagnetic meridian line. At present the MSP records three wavelengths of auroral emissions at 427.8, 557.7 and 630 nm respectively. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institutes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, aerosols, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, earth science, ceos, antarctica, photometers, zhongshan station, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, aurorae, geographic region, aerosol extinction, 
TITLE: Data set of Imaging Riometer during the 17th CHINARE in 2000-2001. ABSTRACT: The Imaging Riometer is to measure cosmic noise absorption caused by ionosphere with 8 by 8 antennas. It can monitor cosmic noise absorption at ionosphere D-region with spatial dimension of 300300 km. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, geomorphology, imaging riometers, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, zhongshan station, ocean, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, solar activity, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Grand Banks Scour Catalogue. ABSTRACT: This data set contains measured and described parameters of over 5,000 ice scour features on the sea bed of the Grand Banks and up-to-date source of measured seabed iceberg scour parameters. It is based on analysis of sidescan sonar and high resolution seismic profile data. Each scour identified from sidescan sonar has fields for length, width, shape, depth, water depth, latitude, longitude, etc. Navigation data is associated.This data set is currently applied in spatial comparison of ice scour characteristics (width, depth, shape), their distribution, frequency and effect on the sea floor. Potential applications include: risk assessment for subsea installations, correlation of ice scour record to oceanographic, geologic and meteorological factors and the determination of scour rates. It is used to determine risk of damage to seabed installations on Grand Banks. It is also used by regulators, industry engineers and consultants as part of environmental impact assessments for major offshore developments. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum (NAD) 83 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System (GRS) 80 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, engineering geology, seismology, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, marine geophysics, none, marine, seismic profile, marine geology, north america, iceberg, sea bed, vertical location, polar, grand banks, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, sea floor scouring, canada offhore east coast, 
TITLE: Samples from 2007 for the COPOL project. ABSTRACT: COPOL is a project under the auspices of the International Polar Year (IPY). The main objective of the project is to understand the dynamic range of man-made contaminants in marine ecosystems of Polar Regions, in order to better predict how possible future climate change will be reflected in levels and effects at higher trophic levels. This aim will be addressed by 4 integrated work packages covering the scopes of 1) food web contaminant exposure and flux, 2) transfer to higher trophic levels and potential effects, 3) chemical analyses and screening, 4) synthesis and integration. The COPOL project focuses on the Arctic region, and the main effort is concentrated in Kongsfjorden (Spitzbergen). This fjord has been identified as particularly suitable as a study site of contaminants processes, due to the remoteness of sources, and for influences of climatic changes, due to the documented relation between Atlantic water influx and the climatic index North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). Variable Atlantic water influx will not only influence abiotic contaminant exposure, but also food web structure, food quality and energy pathways, as different water masses carry different phyto- and zooplankton assemblages. This may affect the flux of contaminants through the food web to high trophic level predators such as seabirds and seals, due to altered food quality and energy pathways. Three field campaigns were conducted in 2007 (spring, summer and autumn), collecting sea water, sediments, and organisms ranging from plankton and benthic invertebrates, to fish and sea birds. Field campaigns are also scheduled for the summer of 2008 and 2009.. KEYWORD: contaminants, heavy metals, kongsfjorden, copol, north atlantic ocean, north atlantic oscillation, arctic oscillation, climate indicators, arctic, no, rijpfjorden, contaminants in polar regions: dynamic range of contaminants in polar marine ecosystems, human dimensions, biomagnification, pelagic food webs, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, environmental impacts, population distribution, population, benthic food webs, ipy, ocean, oceans, persistent organic pollutants, atlantic ocean, teleconnections, 
TITLE: O. National Overview Tables (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The National Overview Tables provide population and dwelling counts established by the 2001 Census of Canada. The levels of geography covered are Canada, provinces and territories, and other geographic areas including census subdivisions (municipalities), census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations. For selected geographies, the tables provide percentage change in the population between 1996 and 2001. Data are also provided for land area and population density. Geographic boundaries are those in effect on January 1, 2001. Catalogue number for free Internet usage is: 93F005IXIE, Catalogue number for printed documents is: 93-360-XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteThe National Overview Tables provide population and dwelling counts established by the 2001 Census of Canada.. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, population counts, urban core, northwest territories, census agglomerations, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, rural areas, polar, rural fringe, nova scotia, earth science, dwellings, ceos, urban areas, quebec, census divisions, alberta, municipalities, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, designated places, geographic region, western hemisphere, urban fringe, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Weekly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Paleoceanographic Values of Carbonate Percent, Relative Sea Level, Paleo SST's, Paleocurrent and MonsoonConditions, and Climatic Sea Level Changes. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Paleoceanographic data, including special projects such as CLIMAP and SPECMAP, as well as oceanwide data sets such as carbonate percent and relative sea level. All data designed to interpret paleoclimatic signals from the ocean system, including paleo SST's, paleocurrent and monsoon conditions, and climatic sea level changes. PURPOSE: Paleoclimatic Research. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, paleo start date cc25-00-00, sediment corers, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, earth science information partners program, ocean, lake records, isotopes, paleo stop date, microscopes, quaternary, g3os, , polar, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, coring devices, phanerozoic, drilling platforms, ships, ocean, gosic, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, oxygen isotopes, sediments, 
TITLE: Meteorology, Vegetation, Radiation, Microtopography, and Thaw Depth Data, Alaska, 1995-1996. ABSTRACT: Data include temperature, relative humidity, long- and short-wave radiation, photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), leaf area index (LAI), microtopography, and thaw depth data for study sites on the North Slope of Alaska. Meteorological parameters were measured at 20-second intervals and averaged to 6-minute records in a data logger. Data were later averaged to one hour. Radiation data were recorded every hour. Microtopography and thaw depths were measured by Terry Chapin's group from the University of California at Berkeley. Resolution of height contours is 0.3048 cm (1 100 of a foot). Thaw depths are given in meters.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, incoming shortwave radiation, atmospheric temperature, surface radiative properties, arctic, opp9318532, vegetation species, leaf area index, field surveys, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss012, lai, north america, alaska, humidity, north slope, thermometers, ground stations, albedo, ground-based observations, par, leaf area index (lai), relative humidity, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, licor plant canopy analyzer, opp-9318532, longwave radiation, permafrost, water vapor, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, microtopography, nsf, continent, shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, usa, nsf, united states of america, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, polar, earth science, ceos, thermistors, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, climate, arcss, laii, flux, contours, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, thaw depth, leaf characteristics, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes air temperature data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, averages, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, arws, polar, amd, us, minimum air temperature, maximum air temperature, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, antarctica, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Terrain and Vegetation of Imnavait Creek, AK: Permanent Plots. ABSTRACT: This data report is a summary of environmental, soil, and vegetation information collected from 73 study plots at the Department of Energy R4D research site, located near Imnavait Creek in northern Alaska. Data include site factors, soil classification, description, and physical and chemical properties, and plant species cover. Investigators examined typical and characteristic vegetation communities of the Imnavait Creek watershed. Data are available only as a hard-copy paper report.. KEYWORD: land management, opp9318530, biological classification, geomorphology, alpine, tundra, periglacial processes, plant communities, ecological dynamics, arctic, landscape ecology, usa, noaa, opp-9415554, arctic system science, topographic effects, peatlands, alaska, glacial landforms, processes, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, species dominance indices, ground-based observations, soil horizons, profile, marshes, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, magnesium, biosphere, watershed characteristics, opp9415554, seasonally frozen ground, opp-9214959, opp-9318530, topographical relief, frozen ground, organic matter, deciduous vegetation, opp9214959, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, soil taxonomy, arctic ecosystem, ground water, canopy characteristics, angiosperms (flowering plants), mosses, hornworts, liverworts, terrestrial habitat, cameras, usa, nsf, plants, aerial photographs, soils, polar, erosion, sedimentation, community dynamics, cryosphere, weathering, landscape patterns, conifers, palustrine wetlands, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, fungi, soil salinity, soil sodicity, solid earth, nsidc, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, braun-blanquet, soil structure, evergreen vegetation, vegetation species, soil depth, snow cover, north america, soil bulk density, human dimensions, land cover, soil classification, r4d, gymnosperms, arctic system science data coordination center, water channels, topography, plant ecology, fluvial landforms, processes, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, surface water, landforms, community structure, geographic region, arcss, active layer, potassium, snow melt, ph meters, vegetation, arcss110, wetlands, soil consistence, releve, sorted table analysis, united states of america, visual observations, riparian wetlands, snow, ice, vertical location, soil texture, calcium, nitrogen, soil plasticity, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, land surface, soil color, arcss, laii, flux, contours, adcc, tundra, vegetation communities, imnavait creek, soil ph, rivers, streams, lichens, dominant species, drainage, plant characteristics, landscape, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Canadian Peatland Database. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Peatland Database contains information on the nature and distribution of peatland in Canada. There is an estimated 154 GT of carbon in Canadian peatlands, 95% of which is found in boreal, subarctic, and arctic areas (Tarnocai, 1998). Sixty percent of the area of Canadian peatlands is expected to be severely, to extremely severely, affected by climate warming caused by a doubling of CO2 (Kettles and Tarnocai, 2000). The work is on-going and accessible on-line. It is also available from the Geological Survey of Canada as Geological Survey of Canada Open File 3834. The Open File includes a 1 6.5 million-scale map using the database.The Canadian Peatland Database will serve as baseline data for monitoring the effects of climate change on peatland and its impact on the Canadian environment. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, greenhouse gas, wetlands, northern hemisphere, peatlands, north america, ontario, carbon, saskatchewan, aquatic ecosystems, yukon territory, climate change, polar, swamps, boreal, nova scotia, earth science, marshes, ceos, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, quebec, alberta, doubling of co2, environment, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, subarctic, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Modeled Carbon Responses of Tundra Ecosystems to Historical and Projected Climate. ABSTRACT: This data set contains the model output data of Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) simulations from 1920-2100 for both moist tundra and polar desert alpine tundra for the Pan-arctic, compared to output for the Kuparuk River Basin (moist tundra). TEM simulates C and N fluxes and pools. 5,942 grid cells were used in the Pan-arctic simulation, of which 3,614 were considered polar desert alpine tundra and 2,328 were considered moist tundra. All 19 grid cells in the Kuparuk simulation were considered moist tundra. The values of several ecosystem variables are compared between the Pan-arctic and Kuparuk. The results of this study are presented and discussed in McGuire et al. (2000), Modeling carbon responses of tundra ecosystems to historical and projected climate: sensitivity of Pan-arctic carbon storage to temporal and spatial variation in climate. Global Change Biology 6: 141-159. The simulations use the moist tundra and polar desert alpine tundra calibrations developed by McGuire et al. (1992), based on data from Toolik Lake, Alaska.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, precipitation amount, terrain elevation, heterotrophic respiration, atmospheric temperature, alpine, tundra, arctic, vegetation species, usa, noaa, arctic system science, nitrogen flux simulation, precipitation, north america, alaska, model, tem, models, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, carbon pool simulation, biosphere, atmospheric carbon dioxide, atmospheric chemistry, opp-9614253, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, opp9614253, kuparuk river basin, carbon flux simulation, vegetation, sims, air temperature, clouds, arcss075, moist tundra, usa, nsf, united states of america, soils, nitrogen pool simulation, synthesis, integration, and modeling study, polar, carbon dioxide, soil texture, nitrogen mineralization, earth science, ceos, pan-arctic, land surface, alpine tundra, adcc, ecosystem production, tundra, kuparuk watershed, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, national science foundation, cloud amount, frequency, polar desert, terrestrial ecosystem model, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Cloud Mask and Spectral Test Results 5-Min L2 Swath 250m and 1km (Collection 004 and 005). ABSTRACT: MODIS was launched aboard the Aqua satellite on May 4, 2002 (1:30 pm equator crossing time) as part of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) mission. MODIS with its 2330 km viewing swath width provides almost daily global coverage. It acquires data in 36 high spectral resolution bands between 0.415 to 14.235 micron with spatial resolutions of 250m(2 bands), 500m(5 bands), and 1000m (29 bands). MODIS sensor counts, calibrated radiances, geolocation products and all derived geophysical atmospheric and ocean products are archived at NASA Goddard DAAC and has been made available to public since April 2000. The MODIS level-2 cloud mask product is a global product generated for both daytime & nighttime conditions at 1-km spatial resolution (at nadir) and for daytime at 250-m resolution. The algorithm employs a series of visible and infrared threshold and consistency tests to specify confidence levels that an unobstructed view of the Earth's surface is observed. An indication of shadows affecting the scene is also provided. The 250-m cloud mask flags are based on the visible channel data only. Radiometrically accurate radiances are required, so holes in the cloud mask will appear wherever the input radiances are incomplete or of poor quality. The shortname for this Level-2 MODIS cloud mask product is MYD35_L2 and the principal investigator for this product is MODIS scientist Dr. Paul Menzel ( paulm@ssec.wisc.edu). MYD35_L2 product files are stored in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS). Each of the 9 gridded parameters is stored as a Scientific Data Set (SDS) within the HDF-EOS file. The Cloud Mask and Quality Assurance SDS's are stored at 1 kilometer pixel resolution. All other SDS's (those relating to time, geolocation, and viewing geometry) are stored at 5 kilometer pixel resolution. Each file is roughly 47.5 MB in size, and the total data volume is approximately 13.7 GB day. For browsing and extracting data from these files, some software are made available at the site. MYD35_L2 Data Group & Parameters Spatial & Temporal Resolution: Latitude & Longitude Scan start time Solar and Sensor Viewing Geometry: Solar zenith & Solar azimuth angle Sensor zenith & Sensor azimuth angle Science Parameters Cloud Mask (1km) Cloud Mask (250 m) Quality Assurance Parameters: Quality Assurance Flags (1km) For more information about the MYD35_L2 product, visit the MODIS-Atmosphere site at: http:  modis-atmos.gsfc.nasa.gov MOD35_L2 . KEYWORD: atmosphere, clear sky pixels, cloud shadow, arctic, eos, echo, global, clouds, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, cloud detection, cloud fraction, eosdis, aqua, earth observing system (eos), aqua, earth science information partners program, sun-glint, modis cloud mask, cirrus cloud, modis, polar, cloud types, earth science, usa, nasa, cloud coverage, cloud screening, cloud height, cloud amount, frequency, cloud obstruction, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, myd35_l2, earth observing system, aqua, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: High-Resolution Rectified Aerial Photography for Collaborative Research of Environmental Change at Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set includes aerial photography of Barrow, Alaska, which has been geocorrected to a 2002 QuickBird satellite image or Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (IFSAR) imagery. Photography included in the set is from these specific dates, from 1948 to 1997: 4 August 1948, 29 July 1949, 12-14 August 1955, 12-24 August 1962, 14 July 1964, 15 July 1979, 31 August 1984, and 16 July 1997. Data are in GeoTIFF and ESRI Shapefile formats with FGDC compliant metadata. Data on DVD are available for ordering. Note: The data for 14 July 1964 span both DVDs.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, visible imagery, digital elevation model, arctic, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, opp-0224071, gis, ifsar, cameras, usa, nsf, digitalglobe's quickbird, united states of america, north america, alaska, arcss306, spectral, engineering, aerial photographs, human dimensions, barrow, polar, digital mapping, opp-0100120, aerial photography, maps, earth science, quickbird, ceos, land use, land cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, orri, quickbird ball high resolution camera 60, orthorectified radar imagery, visible wavelengths, interferometric synthetic aperture radar, quickbird, bhrc-60, digital surface model, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Main Meteorological Observations (Daily Values) from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The MMOSD data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include maximum and minimum air temperature, pressure, minimum humidity, winds, clouds, sunshine duration, snow, and minimum soil temperature for Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia since 1982.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, arctic, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, snow cover, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, minimum air temperature, atmospheric phenomena, solar radiation, maximum, minimum temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, maximum winds, water vapor, mean air temperature, minimum soil temperature, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, snow depth, continent, air temperature, clouds, minimum humidity, mmosd, soils, snow, ice, europe, surface winds, polar, maximum air temperature, cloud types, asia, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, snow coverage, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, eurasia, sunshine duration, 
TITLE: AeroD, Canada. ABSTRACT: The AeroD web site is fully indexed and searchable allowing users to browse Canadian aeronautical publications. The supplements to the charts include the Canada Air Pilot (CAP), the Canada Flight Supplement (CFS), the Water Aerodrome Supplement (WAS), the Designated Airspace Handbook (DAH). AeroD also includes high resolution, full size, colour, Enroute charts, and, over the next few years, VFR Charts. Users are able to easily retrieve information and graphics such as CAP instrument approach procedures, aerodrome charts, aerodrome data, and query the Canadian Aeronautical Charting (CANAC) database.To provide digital aeronautical data, charts, diagrams for planning purposes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome location indicators, Radio navigation aids indicators, Flight Information Region identifiers Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, northern europe, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, buildings, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, bermuda, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, greenland, communications, united states of america, saskatchewan, europe, polar, earth science, ceos, iceland, land surface, quebec, contours, alberta, administrative divisions, atmospheric pressure, transportation, meteorological hazards, prince edward island, infrastructure, atlantic ocean, azores, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperatures. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes air temperature measurements. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_airt.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_airt_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology frlm_airt_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, amd, us, atmospheric temperature, meteorology, surface air temperature, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, air temperature, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, automatic remote weather station, temperature, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: East Siberian Air, Ground Temperature, and Snow Depth Measurements, 1882-1994. ABSTRACT: This data set contains historical data for 35 Russian stations located between approximately 117-145 E and 55-72 N. Data were collected between 1882-1994, but the time period covered by each station and the parameters measured are variable. Daily measurements of snow depth were taken from three snow measuring rods placed in a meteorological enclosure. In individual cases, when the meteorological enclosure was unrepresentative of the surroundings in respect to snow cover formation, the snow measuring rods were placed near the station on a specially selected plot. The daily mean was calculated by averaging the readings from the three rods, rounded to the nearest whole centimeter. If the average was less than 0.5 cm, the mean was considered zero, and if it was greater than or equal to 0.5 cm, it was considered 1 cm. If snow, ice, or melt water was absent at one of the rods, the mean depth was calculated by dividing the sum of the readings by three. The daily data were then averaged at the end of a ten-day period into a single value. This averaging was done three times per month, with the final period in the month containing from eight to 11 days of data, depending on the month. Air and ground temperature measurements were taken with mercury thermometers with high inertiality. Measurements were taken as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions - Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (LAII-ATLAS) program. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant numbers OPP-9721347 and OPP-9732126.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsf, nsidc, continent, atmospheric temperature, atlas, arctic, air temperature, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interactions, usa, nsf, frozen ground data center, russia, arcss, laii, atlas, arcss902, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, europe, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, laii, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, ggd902, adcc, eastern europe, national science foundation, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, snow depth, 
TITLE: Measurements of atmospheric oceanic organosulfur compounds, nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, aerosols and oceanic halocarbon and isoprene made during the SERIES project in sub-Arctic N E Pacific Ocean in 2002 (C-SOLAS). ABSTRACT: This metadata entry refers to measurements of atmospheric and oceanic organosulfur compounds made by Maurice Levasseur and Anne-Lise Norman, atmospheric and oceanic nitrous oxide made by Cliff Law, atmospheric and oceanic carbon dioxide made by Chi Shing Wong, atmospheric aerosols made by Ulrike Lohmann and Richard Leaitch and oceanic halocarbon compounds and isoprene made by Robert Moore during the SERIES research project in the sub-arctic north-eastern Pacific Ocean as part of C-SOLAS. The sampling was undertaken near the Ocean Station Papa (50.08N, 145.47W) and began on 27 June 2002 and ended on 5 August 2002. See below for further details.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, eastern pacific ocean, aerosols, nitrous oxide, organosulfur compounds, arctic, solas, surface ocean lower atmosphere study, sulfur compounds, north pacific ocean, polar, carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, ocean chemistry, dimethyl sulfide, nitrogen compounds, isoprene, hydrocarbons, pacific ocean, earth science, halocarbons, usa, nasa, atmospheric chemistry, ships, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ocean, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Soil studies of the Ross Sea Region 1959-2009. ABSTRACT: Antarctic soils have been investigated in the Ross Sea Region for 50 years. The cumulative studies have resulted in a large literature base of knowledge on various subjects on the soils from various areas throughout the Ross Sea Region. Studies have included soil surveys and profile investigations into soil temperature and moisture measurements, soil chemistry analysis, salt deposits and origin of salts in soils, moraine studies, the history of glaciation through soil studies, degree of weathering on the soils, examination of permafrost properties and the effects of climate change on permafrost and soil properites and waterloss and the effects of human disturbance and contamination on soils. Soil samples are catalogued and stored in the Ross Sea Region Soils Database, held by Landcare Research, New Zealand, and at the Institute of Geological and Nuclear Sciences (GNS), New Zealand.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, soil moisture, water content, heavy metals, loess, field surveys, soil processes, paleoclimate, cryosols, soil depth, soil consistence, boreholes, soil temperature probe, soil bulk density, soil temperature, visual observations, soil depth probe, soil compaction, soils, land records, soil classification, ground-based observations, polar, soil texture, soil water holding capacity, soil horizons, profile, soil sampler, paleosols, earth science, ceos, micronutrients, trace elements, land surface, soil color, antarctica, field investigation, permafrost, ross sea region, soil heat probe, amd, nz, frozen ground, soil moisture probe, amd, soil absorption, geographic region, soil erosion, sediments, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Sviny mooring S1. ABSTRACT: Moored rig at Sviny observing current and some other parameters. KEYWORD: ocean currents, sea_water_pressure, salinity, northward_sea_water_velocity, sea_water_speed, direction_of_sea_water_velocity, north atlantic ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, water pressure, velocity, pressure, arctic, no, eastward_sea_water_velocity, ipy, ocean, oceanography, temperature, oceans, sea_water_salinity, ocean pressure, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Monthly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Diatoms from Lake Fryxell long sediment core. ABSTRACT: Quantitative diatom assemblage data from 9.5 m sediment core from Lake Fryxell, Taylor Valley, Antarctica. Includes more than 50 samples. KEYWORD: microfossils, continent, polar, amd, us, cenozoic, holocene, earth science, scanning electron microscopes, ceos, phanerozoic, mcmurdo dry valleys long term ecological research project, glacial lake washburn, antarctica, paleoclimate, paleo stop date 0ka, usa, nsf, paleo start date 45ka, microscopes, quaternary, amd, geographic region, land records, mcm-lter, 
TITLE: Near Real-Time DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: The Near Real-Time DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Brightness Temperature product provides brightness temperatures for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. These brightness temperatures are used to generate near real-time sea ice concentrations. Near real-time passive microwave brightness temperatures from the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) F13 and F15 Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) are received daily from the Marshall Space Flight Center and gridded onto the SSM I polar stereographic grid. Two-byte scaled integer data are available via FTP at a resolution of 25 km for the 19, 22, and 37 GHz channels, and at 12.5 km resolution for the 85 GHz channels. NSIDC plans daily updates to the data. These data will be retained on the ftp site until NSIDC's standard brightness temperature product, the DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures, is available. For more information please see the DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures and the Near Real- Time SSM I EASE-Grid Daily Global Ice Concentration and Snow Extent.. KEYWORD: continent, dmsp 5d-2, f15, arctic, special sensor microwave, imager, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, spectral, engineering, microwave, antarctic, gridded data, polar, earth science, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, ssm, i, passive microwave, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for Northern Part of Kamchatka Mid-Range. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for North part Mid range (Kamchatka) derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Bathymetry Coverages for the Bering and Chukchi Sea Databases. ABSTRACT: These bathymetry coverages were created to support marine animal research in the Bering and Chukchi Seas. Polygon ARC INFO coverages were generated from both digital and paper bathymetry sources. For complete information on the history, accuracy, and usage of each coverage, download and read its metadata file. Please include the metadata if you share these coverages with others. [Summary provided by the USGS.]. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, arctic, geographic information systems, gulf of alaska, gis, ecology, united states of america, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, north pacific ocean, bering sea, polar, pacific ocean, ocean biology, earth science, ceos, biosphere, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ocean, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Stratospheric Photochemistry, Aerosols and Dynamics Expedition (SPADE) Data Set CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM contains data from the Stratospheric Photochemistry, Aerosols and Dynamics Expedition (SPADE) project. This campaign was based at the NASA Ames Research Center in California during portions of 1992 and 1993. The data consist of measurements collected onboard the NASA ER-2 aircraft, and selected radiosonde soundings from stations in the region of the experiment. Flights were conducted during October and November of 1992, April and May of 1993, and October of 1993. There have been some updates to the files on the CD. If you wish to obtain the CD and the current data set files, contact Steve Gaines (gaines@cloud1.arc.nasa.gov). You will need a password on the cloud1.arc.nasa.gov computer to obtain the updated files. [Summary Adapted from the British Atmospheric Data Center Home Page]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, atmospheric temperature, arctic, global, air temperature, clouds, ozone, horizontal wind, uv reflectivity, nasa er-2, geopotential wind, radiosondes, potential vorticity, polar, total ozone, vorticity, reflectance, earth science, oxygen compounds, usa, nasa, spade, stratospheric photochemistry, aerosols and dynamics expedition, cloud height, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, visible reflectivity, nasa earth resources-2, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, er-2, underlying cloud height, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Ice Motion Vector Data. ABSTRACT: ERS-1 Ice Motion Vector Data is generated from pairs of geocoded low resolution SAR imagery. The time separation between the repeat viewing of the same ice field depends on the orbit characteristics of the ERS-1 platform and the geographic location of the region of interest. Typical values are between 3 and 35 days. The absolute spatial displacement of ice features is measured and reported for every cell of the 5km SSM I grid covered by the selected pair of images. Since each ERS-1 SAR image covers an 100x100 km area, each ice motion vector product covers approximately the same area. Individual data products are very small (about 30 KBytes) and are available electronically as well as on 9-track or 8 mm tape. The data is presented in CEOS format. Approval by NASA is required to obtain the data. Please contact ASF user services to become a NASA approved investigator.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sar daac, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, eosdis, ers-1, sea surface, earth science information partners program, sea ice, ice drift, spectral, engineering, sea ice motion, polar, vertical location, sar, earth science, cryosphere, idn_node gsfc, asf, usa, nasa, radar imagery, daac, synthetic aperture radar, radar, earth observing system data information system, ocean, asf daac, global change, oceans, esip, sar data, geographic region, 
TITLE: University of Delaware Climate Resource Data. ABSTRACT: This collection of data is a product of joint efforts of University of Delaware, Seasonal to Interannual Earth Science Information Partner at Geaorge Mason University (GMU SIESIP), Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies (COLA), Complex Systems Research Center at the University of New Hampshire and The Ecosystems Center of the Marine Biological Laboratory. It includes the following datasets: Global Climate Data Monthly Air Temperature Climatologies Time Series (1950 - 1996) Monthly Total Precipitation Climatologies Time Series (1950-1996) Monthly Terrestrial Water Budgets Climatologies Time Series (1950-1996) Monthly Moisture Indices Climatologies Time Series (in preparation) South American Climate Data Monthly Air Temperature Climatologies Time Series (1960 - 1990) Monthly Total Precipitation Climatologies Time Series (1960 -1990) Arctic Climate Data Monthly Air Temperature Climatologies Time Series (1960 - 1990) Monthly Total Precipitation Climatologies Time Series (1960 -1990). KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, global, air temperature, seasonal to inter-annual earth science information partners, precipitation, earth science information partners program, south america, soils, siesip, polar, tems, gtos, earth science, land surface, lba, usa, nasa, esip, gosic, geographic region, g3os, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes air temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, winds, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, wind speed minimum, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, wind speed maximum, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Climatic Data in the Free Atmosphere from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The CDFA data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include air temperature, geopotential, and winds for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, upper level winds, continent, polar, altitude, geopotential, atmospheric temperature, arctic, asia, earth science, air temperature, usa, nasa, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, geopotential height, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, cdfa, russia, ground stations, geographic region, eurasia, europe, 
TITLE: Fur Seal Tag Recovery; NMML. ABSTRACT: The Tag Recovery digital data set includes a record of tags found on fur seal adults that were attached as pups.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, fur, ecological dynamics, arctic, fur seal, aedd, usa, noaa, coastal waters of alaska and siberia, alaska coast, noaa, north america, alaska, pinniped, alaska and siberian coastal waters, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, north pacific ocean, coastal alaska and siberia and bering sea, mammal population, biosphere, regional threatened species, nmml, tags, animals, vertebrates, coastal alaska, alaska directory, coast, ships, mammals, ocean, sea lion, pribilof islands, animal, gosic, geographic region, chukchi sea, continent, marine, siberian coastal waters, international waters, united states of america, mammal, coastal habitat, marine mammal, wildlife, bering sea, polar, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, ceos, pacific, environment, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, endangered species, siberia, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes relative humidity measurements as recorded by a Campbell Scientific 207 temperature relative humidity probe. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_rh.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_rh_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_rh_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, humidity, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, earth science, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Marine Monitoring Data (Physical, Chemical, Biological) from the Canadian East Coast. ABSTRACT: This marine monitoring data includes physical (temperature, currents, sediment grain size analysis), chemical (oil & grease, cadmium, mercury, lead, zinc, PCB, DDT, salinity), and biological (benthic count). Data are obtained from field surveys (grab samplers, current meters, underwater videos and diver surveys). Location: Nova Scotia (Sable Island Bank, inshore coastal areas from Cape Breton to Yarmouth), New Brunswick (Saint John Harbour), Newfoundland (West Coast Arctic and Melville Island). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Albers Conical Equal Area Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, arctic ocean, heavy metals, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, none, polychlorinated biphenyls, north america, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, sable island bank, aczdd, zinc, ocean chemistry, hydrocarbons, nova scotia, biosphere, sedimentary textures, canada, cgdi, benthic habitat, ocean, canada, new brunswick, oceans, cadmium, salinity, density, geographic region, canadian east coast, contaminants, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mercury, north atlantic ocean, trace elements, oil, sediment grain size, grab samplers, marine sediments, grease, polar, salinity, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, lead, ddt, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Background Air Pollution Monitoring Network - Measurements of Greenhouse Gases (Canada). ABSTRACT: This dataset includes measurements of greenhouse gases. Variables: CO2 (all), CH4, CFC's, N2O (Alert). The data covers the West Coast-Estevan Point, the East Coast-Sable Island, and Arctic-Alert. This data is currently applied to the analysis of temporal trends in greenhouse gases and atmospheric processes related to sources and sinks to better predict climate impacts and changes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, greenhouse gases, gcmd, mid-latitude, boundary layer, co2, british columbia, none, nunavut, troposphere, tropospheric ozone, north america, air quality, climate change, vertical location, polar, cfc, trace gases, trace species, o3, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, n20, ch4, radiatively active gases, atmospheric chemistry, canada, cgdi, canada, global change, background air pollution monito, geographic region, 
TITLE: Penny Ice Cap Microparticle Data. ABSTRACT: Penny Ice Cap ice core and snowpit microparticle data. This dataset contains a summary of microparticle measurements from snowpits and a 334-m long ice core (P95) from the Penny Ice Cap, Baffin Island, Canada. Snowpits were excavated in 1994-1995, and core P95 was drilled in April-May 1995. The P95 core was dated back to 7900 yr ago (319 m) by spectral analysis of the electrical conductivity record which tracks seasonal chemical variations (Fisher et al. 1998; Grumet et al., 1998. Additional time control was provided by conductivity and sulfate peaks related major volcanic eruptions. Beyond 7900 yr ago, the depth-age curve was adjusted to match the end of the Younger Dryas-Holocene transition (326 m) dated at 11,550 + - 70 yr ago in Greenland ice-core records. Age values for the P95 microparticle record are expressed in years before A.D. 2000 (yb2k). Microparticle concentrations and size distributions were measured for a size range of 0.85 to 12 m with an Elzone 280PC multi-channel particle counter equipped with a 30 m orifice (Zdanowicz et al., 1998). The microparticle parameters are: N = total number of particles [0.85-12 m], expressed in thousands of particles per mililiter of meltwater (10^3 ml^-1) M = total mass of particles [0.85-12 m], expressed in micrograms per kilogram of ice (g kg^-1 or ppb) NMD = arithmetic mean diameter of microparticles [0.85-12 m], in micrometers (m) b (beta) = slope of a Junge distribution applied to microparticles with diameter < 1 m. KEYWORD: continent, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, snowpit, particulate matter, pages, north america, quaternary, paleo start date 7900 ybp, land records, microparticle, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, glaciation, canada, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, 
TITLE: Seasonal and Annual Dynamics of Frozen Ground, Central Highland of Iceland. ABSTRACT: This dataset documents a nine-year study to investigate the seasonal and annual dynamics of frozen ground and explore the relationship with environmental factors. The presence absence of frozen ground and active layer thickness were recorded three times over the growing season (4-7 July, 1-4 August, and 20-24 August) at 51 permanent points in different plant communities and on 12 palsas (Thorhallsdottir 1996, p. 237). Sample size is variable: 33 permanent measurement stations in 1983, 29 in 1984, 63 in 1985-1991. Active layer depth measurement sites averaged 51 over the span of the data set. Data include mean active layer depth (and standard error) in early July and early August (for palsas and with palsas excluded); monthly degree days above zero, precipitation, snow depth, and frost degree days (i.e., below zero.) Data are presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, thjorsarver, central highland, iceland, active layer, atmospheric temperature, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, patterned ground, degree days, permafrost properties, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, meteorology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, iceland, land surface, northern europe, seasonally frozen ground, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: M. Standard Geographical Classification, Volume 1, The Classification (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Standard Geographical Classification (SGC) is a system of names and codes representing areas of Canada. It consists of a three-tiered hierachary-province, county and municipality. The SGC is used to identify information for particular geographical areas and to tabulate statistics. Catalogue number for free Internet usage is: 12-571-XIB, Catalogue number for printed documents is: 12-571-XPB ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteVolume 1, The Classification, is designed as a reference and coding manual. The Classification volume contains tables of SGC units with their names and codes and an alphabetical index of place names. It also covers related areas based upon the SGC.. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, statistical areas, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, classification systems, census agglomerations, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, rural areas, geographical classification, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, urban areas, classification, quebec, census divisions, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Communities and Seasonal Processes, Nella Fjord, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: For understanding the carbon flux and its variation in coastal sea ice, data on the microalgal community structure associated with sea ice and sea water environments was collected in Nella Fjord, Antarctica, near the Chinese Antarctic Zhongshan Station. The data was collected during the period from March 25, 1997 to January 7, 1998.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, nella fjord, coastal sea ice, ecological dynamics, arctic, biogeochemical cycles, biomass dynamics, carbon flux, plants, amd, cn, protists, microalgae, phytoplankton, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, ground-based observations, polar, ocean chemistry, pigments, community dynamics, zooplankton, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, zhongshan station, ecosystem functions, community structure, diatoms, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canadian Climate Normals Atlas (CCNA) of 1961-1990 from the Meteorological Service of Canada. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Climate Normals Atlas (CCNA) consists of national maps of the 1961-1990 Canadian Climate Normals (CCND), presented in annual and monthly form. The maps are stored on diskette as PCX or CUT graphics files. While no software is provided for displaying or printing the maps, the PCX format is compatible with a variety of different software packages, making it possible to display, print, and even incorporate them into other documents. The CUT format is intended primarily for use with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) such as SPANS. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio: Fees: Set (temperature and precipitation): $149; each (temperature or precipitation): $89. KEYWORD: atmosphere, climate normals, continent, precipitation amount, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, arctic, annual data, air temperature, clouds, none, total cloud amount, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, idn_node gsfc, aes, ec, humidity, surface winds, digital data, polar, surface pressure, maps, surface, surface air temperature, cloud types, earth science, ceos, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, cloud amount, frequency, canada, water vapor, climatology, monthly data, geographic region, normals, western hemisphere, ccna, 
TITLE: Sea Surface Temperature Images from ATSR (ERS) and AVHRR (NOAA) data from the Tromso Satellite Station (TSS). ABSTRACT: Under an ESA contract, TSS receives global ATSR data from the ERS-1 satellite. This is a demonstration project where data is processed in Tromso and the products are distributed directly to the end user. The UK Met. Office is one of the users having received ATSR data products from TSS. This near real-time service is set up using Internet for transmission of the products. The operational service aquires an average of 10 ERS-1 passes a day, every day throughout the year. Through this near real-time demonstration project, the TSS infrastructure has proven to be very well suited for supporting an operational service with useful and necessary information. A full resolution ATSR data product chain has also been implemented very recently. TSS can now offer in near-real time full resolution (1 km) brightness and sea surface temperature products. The coverage is global for the ATSR, and for the AVHRR the coverage is that of TSS (i.e., Northern Europe).. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, noaa poes, infrared imagery, ocean temperature, global, european remote sensing satellite-2, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, ers-1, ers-2, esa, esrin, sst, spectral, engineering, avhrr, europe, sea surface temperature, polar, infrared wavelengths, along track scanning radiometer and microwave sounder, earth science, ceos, northern europe, idn_node esrin, tss, visible wavelengths, brightness, ocean, oceanography, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atsr, 
TITLE: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) Data Base, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Alaska. ABSTRACT: The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) is the most northern and one of the largest Refuges within America's National Wildlife Refuge System. The Arctic Refuge is managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior. The USFWS ANWR site contains information and data on wildlife, habitat, and people in the Arctic Refuge. The Refuge is home to more than 160 bird species, 36 kinds of land mammals, nine marine mammal species, and 36 types of fish. The ANWR geological and land surface databases are available from the Alaska Geospatial Data Clearinghouse (AGDC) at "http:  agdc.usgs.gov data projects anwr webhtml " The data consists of political boundaries and coastlines, land cover and vegetation maps, rivers, streams and wetlands, elevation contours, satellite images (Landsat-MSS and Landsat-TM), surficial geology, and coastal bathymetry as well as Alaska statewide land characterization and geospatial data.. KEYWORD: biological classification, terrain elevation, alpine, tundra, ecological dynamics, arctic, mss, field geology, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, field maps, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, ground-based observations, maps, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, surface water, bathymetry, seafloor topography, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, mammals, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, usgs, continent, visible imagery, landcover, landsat-5, landsat-4, vegetation, us fws, birds, geology, wetlands, united states of america, thematic mapper, coastal habitat, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, land surface, usa, nasa, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, rivers, streams, endangered species, estuarine wetlands, tm, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Weekly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Offshore, Coastal and Selected Lakes Research Cruise Stations - Expedition Database. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of information related to stations conducted offshore, in coastal areas and selected Canadian lakes, in particular associated site-specific information for both Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) and (Pacific) sampling stations conducted as part of research cruises. Basic information such as the location (latitude, longitude), day-of-year and time, water depth and more is recorded for each station and collected in the GSCA GSCP Expedition Database. Currently, there are approximately 940 cruises with some 45,000 stations in this data set.As part of the Expedition Database (ED), this data archives basic station and sample information as part of the record of research cruise activities. It is used as the base information (and the metadata) for measurements, analysis and descriptions of activity conducted or sample collected at those stations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: To 1989 - NAD27 1989 - Present WGS84 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, davis strait, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, marine geophysics, northern hemisphere, freshwater lakes, north america, gulf of maine, seabed, bay of fundy, sable island gully, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, north east newfoundland shelf, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, ocean, canada, arctic archipelago, baffin shelf, coastal - eastern canada, oceans, scotian shelf, geographic region, western hemisphere, coastal - arctic canada, scotian slope, continent, gcmd, coastal - western canada, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, hudson strait, labrador sea, browns bank, marine, seafloor, grand banks of newfoundland, gulf of st. lawrence, marine sediments, vertical location, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geophysics, beaufort sea, emerald basin, coastal processes, flemish cap, labrador shelf, sediment transport, flemish pass, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Near-Real-Time DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: This data set provides a near-real-time (NRT) map of sea ice concentrations for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The near-real-time passive microwave brightness temperature data are acquired with the Special Sensor Microwave Imager Sounder (SSMIS) on board the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) F17 satellite. The SSMIS instrument is the next generation Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) instrument. SSMIS data are received daily from the Comprehensive Large Array-data Stewardship System (CLASS) at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and are gridded onto a polar stereographic grid. Investigators generate sea ice concentrations from these data using the NASA Team algorithm. These data are stored as one-byte flat scaled binary arrays with one byte per pixel, at a resolution of 25 km. For each data file, a corresponding PNG image file is provided. These data are available via FTP for the most recent three to six months and are retained on the FTP site until NSIDC's Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data (preliminary data) become available for the same time period. These data are primarily meant to provide a best estimate of current ice and snow conditions based on information and algorithms available at the time the data are acquired. Near-real-time products are not intended for operational use in assessing sea ice conditions for navigation and should be used with caution in extending the sea ice time series in NSIDC's Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data.. KEYWORD: continent, polar stereographic, sea ice concentration, arctic, special sensor microwave, imager, dmsp, ice, smmr, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, eosdis, dmsp 5d-3, f15, special sensor microwave imager, sounder, earth science information partners program, dmsp 5d-3, f17, sea ice, antarctic, gridded data, polar, ssmi, s, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, ssm, i, passive microwave, earth observing system data information system, near real-time, oceans, defense meteorological satellite program-f17, amd, esip, geographic region, ssmis, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, ice concentration, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Arctic soft-sediment macrobenthos (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: Samples of the macrobenthic fauna of soft sediments were collected from around Svalbard during the 1991 Arctic EPOS cruise of RVPolarstern. Although faunal variability could be related to sediment granulometry and depth, all stations to the south and east of the Archipelago lay within the broadly defined central Barents Sea community. In this community, (alfa-diversity was variable and sampled between 77 and 337 m showed no clear relationship to depth. Diversity in the area close to the polar front was notably high, rarefaction predicting that 43  5.5 species might occur in a sample of 201 individuals. k-Dominance plots suggested that muddy sand communities around Sval- bard were no less diverse than similar assemblages in the North Sea. Size reference: 23 stations sampled; 223 species found [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: mollusks, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, sediment corers, arthropods, echinoderms, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, obis, greenland, north america, plants, arctic environment, microalgae, macrobenthos, aquatic ecosystems, segmented worms (annelids), marine habitat, marine sediments, barents sea, polar, census of marine life, density, coml, svalbard and jan mayen, peanut worms, norwegian sea, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, priapulans, benthic habitat, ocean, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Induction Magnetometer Observation at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: This observation was started on Jan. 1996 at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica. It is designed to investigate space plasma waves by observing earth's magnetic field variation, including the horizontal component in north-south direction (H), and the horizontal component in east-west direction (D). It is a collaborative scientific project between Polar Research Institute of China and Newcastle University of Australia and the Antarctic Division of Australia.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetometers, magnetic intensity, magnetometer, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, plasma wave, geomagnetic induction, induction, geomagnetism, amd, cn, amd, reference fields, geographic region, 
TITLE: Geologic Names of the U.S., Territories and Possessions, USGS. ABSTRACT: The data base contains an annotated index lexicon of formal geologic nomenclature of the United States, territories, and possessions, with data on location, geologic age, U.S. Geological Survey usage, lithology, geologic province, thickness at type section, location of type section, and naming reference for each geologic unit.. KEYWORD: glaciers, land management, solid earth, continent, terrain elevation, geomorphology, natural resources, arctic, lithology, aedd, geology, stratigraphy, united states of america, bedrock, north america, geography, ground stations, human dimensions, lakes, mineral, petroleum, terrestrial hydrosphere, us, hydrology, topography, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land use, land cover, land tenure, land surface, maps, charts, igneous rocks, cartography, metamorphic rocks, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, sedimentary rocks, rivers, streams, wilderness, coal, rocks, minerals, usgs, photography, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: ANSCIA Barrow Ground Control Point Database. ABSTRACT: This series of web pages presents site information for 63 Ground Control Points (GCP's) measured near Barrow, Alaska, during the summer of 2001 using Differential GPS. The GCP's were measured on the corners of buildings, ends of snowfences, base of telephone poles, and other features visible on small- to large-scale imagery. They are concentrated generally within 2 km of the Chukchi coast (coinciding with extent of the year 2000 air photos). The GCP's will help researchers and other scientists working in the area to establish precise geographic or UTM coordinates for field sites, and to assist with georectification of aerial photography and satellite imagery. The GCP's were measured as part of an ongoing research project, Alaska North Slope Climate Impact Assessment (ANSCIA), which is funded by the National Science Foundation's program on Human Dimensions of the Arctic System. This database is being made publicly available as part of our objectives for data sharing and outreach to both the scientific community and the public at large. [Summary provided by University of Colorado.]. KEYWORD: land management, continent, visible imagery, ground control point, arctic, field surveys, gis, ground control points, united states of america, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, ground stations, aerial photographs, human dimensions, ground-based observations, polar, land assessment, maps, aircraft, earth science, land use, land cover, usa, nasa, field investigation, visible wavelengths, management, geographic region, 
TITLE: Weather data in voyage of the 2nd Chinese Arctic Research Expedition in 2003. ABSTRACT: During the second voyage of Chinese Arctic Research Expedition, we use automatic station to get the weather information, including pressure, cloud, temperature, humidity and precipitation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, atmospheric temperature, atmospheric phenomena, arctic, earth science, ceos, clouds, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ships, ocean, arctic, cn, geographic region, aws, 
TITLE: Real-time Weather Information from Great Bay Inlet. ABSTRACT: Real-time winds speed, direction and temperatures from Great Bay Inlet outside of Tuckerton, NJ. Data is updated every 15 minutes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, earth science, solar radiation, air temperature, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, water vapor, north america, new jersey, humidity, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: GISP2 Stable Isotopes (Deuterium, Deuterium Excess, and Oxygen). ABSTRACT: The data compiled here consist of GISP2 deuterium, deuterium excess, and oxygen isotope values measured at the Stable Isotope Laboratory, Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research (INSTAAR), University of Colorado as of August, 2004. The data are contained in two data files, with resolutions of 1.4 to 0.3 meters and 0.5 meters, respectively. The depth intervals of the measured data range from 91.49 to 1600.606 meters, and from 1600 to 3039 meters. The vast majority of data are from the ISO-1 piece, with some gaps filled using the main core archive.. KEYWORD: nsidc, holocene, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, gisp2, northern hemisphere, north america, isotopes, mass spectrometers, opp-8821808, paleo stop date 240 ybp, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, oxygen, ground-based observations, stable isotopes, paleo start date 10,400 ybp, office of polar programs, national science foundation, glaciers, ice sheets, arcss137, ice core, geographic region, weather records, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, continent, arcss, gisp2, cenozoic, national snow and ice data center, paleoclimate, greenland, usa, nsf, ice augers, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, paleo start date 110,000 ybp, water quality, water chemistry, polar, oxygen-18, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, coring devices, phanerozoic, opp-9321564, ice core stratigraphy, ice core data, ice sheets, paleo stop date 10,400 ybp, ice core records, 
TITLE: The sea surface temperature and salinity surveyed in the 9th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China (1992 - 1993). ABSTRACT: From November, 1992 to April, 1993, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature and salinity on the way to our Zhongshan Station and Changchen Station.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, salinity, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, zhongshan station, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, changchen station, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Canadian Offshore Seabed Photo Collection. ABSTRACT: This collection consists of bottom photos at the seabed interface and downcore core-face photos collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic).This collection is useful for analysis and the determination of geohazards, benthic colonization, aggregate potential, and bottom features. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, arctic, north atlantic ocean, none, nunavut, northwest territories, benthic communities, geohazards, northern hemisphere, north america, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, yukon territory, polar, bottom features, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, east coast canada, mackenzie delta, biosphere, marine environment monitoring, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: AVHRR (1 km) Data Collected Onboard the USCGC Polar Sea. ABSTRACT: The AVHRR images were downloaded to the USCGC Polar Sea during the NSF ARCSS OAII-funded Northeast Water Polynya (NEW) Project. There are 126 AVHRR images available from NOAA 10, 11, and 12 from July 19, 1993, to August 16, 1993.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, visible imagery, arctic system science, oaii, northeast water polynya, arctic, infrared imagery, arcss, oaii, new, usa, noaa, arctic system science, noaa-10, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, noaa-12, alaska, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, avhrr, polar, infrared wavelengths, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, adcc, arcss044, visible wavelengths, national science foundation, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes wind speed and wind direction measurements as recorded by a R.M. Young model 05103 wind monitor. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wind.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wspd_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wspd_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, maximum wind speed, lter, arctic, minimum wind speed, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, glacier, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Laboratory Studies of Photochemistry in Antarctic Snow and Ice. ABSTRACT: Our US NSF-funded project had two major parts: (1) measuring the quantum yields for photolysis of nitrite (NO2-), nitrous acid (HNO2), and hydrogen peroxide (HOOH) using laboratory ices, and (2) measuring the wavelength-dependent light absorption by soluble species in snow samples from Dome Concordia and Summit, Greenland. The laboratory photolysis work is not included in this database but can be found in publications cited in the reference section of this metadata. The second part of our work (the measurements of light absorption by soluble snow chemical species) is included in this database and was recently submitted to the Journal of Geophysical Research (C. Anastasio and T. Robles, Light absorption by soluble chemical species in Arctic and Antarctic snow). This work is summarized below. Using a liquid core waveguide spectrophotometer we have quantified the very low light absorbance of dissolved chromophores (light absorbing species) in filtered samples of melted polar snows. Light absorption coefficients at 280 nm span the ranges of 0.005 - 0.029 m^-1 and 0.002 - 0.037 m^-1 for samples from Summit, Greenland and Dome Concordia, Antarctica, respectively. Absorption coefficients decrease with increasing wavelength and also decrease with increasing depth in the snow pack. At both sites nitrate (NO3-) and HOOH together account for approximately half of the summed light absorption coefficients for wavelengths of 280 nm and above; the remaining ~ 50% of light absorbance is due to unknown, probably organic, chromophores. Based on our light absorption measurements and modeled actinic fluxes, we calculate that the rates of sunlight absorption by soluble chromophores in surface snows are approximately (1 - 4) 10^11 and (3 - 10) 10^11 photons cm^-3 s^-1 during summer at Summit and Dome C, respectively. Approximately 50 - 90% of this sunlight absorption is due to unknown chromophores, while the remainder is due to hydrogen peroxide and nitrate. Although we do not know quantum yields for the photochemical reactions of the unknown chromophores, their large contribution to the rate of sunlight absorption suggests that they play an important role in the photochemistry of polar snowpacks.. KEYWORD: continent, photochemical, arctic, nitrate, snowpack chemistry, snow, ice chemistry, snow, ice, antarctic, albedo, chemistry, polar, amd, us, hydrogen peroxide, light absorption, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, chemical species, antarctica, pollutants, photochemistry, laboratory, snow, spectrophotometers, amd, organic compounds, geographic region, 
TITLE: Aerosol Optical Depth Measurements from Four NOAA CMDL Monitoring Sites, in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: Measurements of direct solar irradiance have been carried out since 1977 at each of four baseline atmospheric monitoring stations operated by NOAA CMDL. The four stations are at: Barrow, Alaska (1977-1992) Mauna Loa, Hawaii (1977-1992) Samoa, Cape Matatula (1977-1992) South Pole, Antarctica (1977-1992) Monitoring is done by means of a wideband pyrheliometer. Measured values are compared with results of solar irradiance calculations to derive aerosol optical depth (AOD), defined as the aerosol component of the exponent in the exponential decrease in solar beam intensity as the beam passes through the atmosphere. The data are presented as monthly anomalies in relation to a baseline comprised of all AOD values from the nonvolcanic years at a given site, with mean seasonal variation removed. Please use the following dataset citation: Dutton, E.G. 1994. "Aerosol optical depth measurements from four NOAA CMDL monitoring sites", pp. 484-492. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change. ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA. CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for all data available in TRENDS. The FTP address is CDIAC.ESD.ORNL.GOV and 128.219.24.36 and input your email address as the password. The data bases are arranged as subdirectories in  pub trends93 trace that correspond to major chapter headings in TRENDS. The data files are arranged as xxxx.yyy where xxxx is the name of the station, country, site, region, or principle investigator and yyy is the page number in TRENDS '93 (example: maunaloa.19 refers to the Mauna Loa CO2 dataset tabulated on page 19 of TRENDS '93). "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, aerosols, american samoa, arctic, cape matatula, aerosol optical depth, pyrheliometers, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, aerosol extinction, air quality, barrow, polar, optical depth, thickness, amd, us, visibility, optical depth, hawaii, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, usa, nasa, solar irradiance, antarctica, samoa, ocean, mauna loa, amd, central pacific ocean, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, south pole, 
TITLE: Marbled Murrelet Nest Locations in British Columbia: Digital Dataset. ABSTRACT: This data set contains the locations of all known Marbled Murrelet nest locations within British Columbia. Marbled Murrelet is a seabird that flies up to 75 km inland to nest in mostly old-growth forests. The nest is composed of a bowl-shaped depression on moss-covered branches. Due to the cryptic nature of their nesting behaviour, few nests have been found. Most of the nests in this database are located by telemetry techniques. To create a detailed inventory of located Marbled Murrelet nests within British Columbia. This dataset is further used to build a large-scaled GIS Marbled Murrelet distribution model for coastal British Columbia. Nest locations have been derived from various methods, but the majority is derived from one main method. For survey methods, user must refer to the original documents to determine the specific search methodology and for a complete description of the various methodology, and for interpretation of the data.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, seabird, brachyramphus marmoratus, ecological dynamics, vancouver island, arctic, british columbia, birds, north america, mussel inlet, clayoquot sound, marbled murrelet, polar, earth science, ceos, nest, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, canada, desolation sound, species, population interactions, walbran creek, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MYD10C1) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 columns by 3600 rows of global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 degree Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Until the reprocessing campaign is finished, the complete set of Version 4 (V004) data will remain available. Thus, if you need V004 documentation, please contact the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) User Services at http:  nsidc.org forms contact.html.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, swath, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m (MYD10_L2) contains snow cover and quality assurance (QA) data, latitudes, and longitudes in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 500 m resolution. Version 4 (V004), the latest version of MODIS data available, has two separate snow cover fields: one incorporating the original cloud mask, and another using a less cloud-conservative mask. MODIS Aqua V004 data extend from 04 July 2002 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, eos pm-1, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, fractional snow cover, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Earthquakes in the USSR, Catalogs and Descriptions. ABSTRACT: The Common System of Seismological Observations is founded and works on the territory of the USSR. It includes the base network of 68 stations and a number of regional subnetworks of stationary seismological stations. The stations have equipment for registration of ground seismic vibrations (seismographs with clock control system). Seismographs are of different types with various amplitude-frequency characteristics and sensitiveness. Information of equipment of the Common System of Seismological Observations of the USSR are regularly published in annual issues (Parameters 19..). Seismograph records (seismograms) are primary station data. These data are subjected to some stage of processing on the stations and in special seismological bodies in the USSR on various levels. Final results of this processing are included into the year-books 'Earthquakes in the USSR in 19...'. These year-books contain annual catalogs of strong earthquakes on all territory of the USSR, annual regional catalogs of earthquakes for 16 seismoactive regions of the USSR, and annual regional catalogs of supplementary parameters of earthquake sources. The first two catalogs include: date and source time of event, latitude, longitude and depth of hypocenter, magnitudes according to various scale, and energy class or intensity of event. The third catalog includes fault plane solutions according to instrumental data in a unified form. Review articles on regional studies including the macroseismic effects of earthquakes and dynamic parameter data for sources are given, as well as individual articles describing a number of strong earthquakes in the USSR with intensity more than 6.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, seismology, arctic, earthquake occurrences, seismic profile, seismographs, russia, earthquake dynamics, europe, polar, surface, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, subsurface, seismological stations, crust, eastern europe, ocean, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b sep, geographic region, 
TITLE: Floating Buoy Tracks. ABSTRACT: Daily 4-Day Buoy tracks are available for the Gulf Stream Area,Gulf of Mexico, Florida Current, and LEO-15 Area online.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, moorings, atmospheric temperature, water temperature, ocean temperature, air temperature, buoys, sea surface topography, atmospheric pressure measurements, sst, north america, new jersey, ocean waves, sea surface temperature, surface winds, salinity, ocean winds, wave spectra, wave period, earth science, wave height, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, sea surface height, oceans, salinity, density, 
TITLE: Ice Algal Assemblages near Zhongshan Station, East Antarctica between April and December 1992. ABSTRACT: Data on the compositions of ice algal and underlying phytoplankton assemblages, and relating environmental factors, such as chlorophyll-a, nutrient, salinity, and ice structure, were collected at four coastal fast-ice sites near Zhongshan Station, East Antarctica between April and December 1992. The objectives of this project is to understand the seasonal variations of ice algal and phytoplankton assemblages and their relationships to the environmental factors.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, ecological dynamics, algae, vegetation, nutrients, biomass dynamics, plants, amd, cn, protists, microalgae, phytoplankton, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, coastal habitat, ground-based observations, polar, ocean chemistry, biomass, pigments, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, population dynamics, zhongshan station, ecosystem functions, community structure, diatoms, species, population interactions, sea ice ecology, oceans, amd, dominant species, geographic region, 
TITLE: Landsat-7 Calibration Parameter File V002. ABSTRACT: The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite on April 15, 1999, marks the addition of the latest satellite to the Landsat satellite series. The Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) Program launched the first of a series of satellites (ERTS 1) in 1972. Part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Earth Resources Survey Program, the ERTS Program and the ERTS satellites were later renamed Landsat to better represent the civil satellite program's prime emphasis on remote sensing of land resources. The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite is part of an ongoing mission to provide quality remote sensing data in support of research and applications activities. The Landsat-7 satellite carries the enhanced thematic mapper plus (ETM+) sensor. Radiometric and geometric calibration of both the Landsat-7 satellite and its ETM+ sensor is sustained through the Landsat-7 Image Assessment System. New images are assessed on a daily basis. Radiometric and geometric calibrations are performed as needed and processing parameters are developed for creating level-1 products. Processing parameters are stored in a calibration parameter file (CPF) and fall into one of three categories, including radiometric parameters, geometric parameters, and artifact-removal parameters. Calibration parameters are stored as American Standard Code for Information Interchange text, using an object data language syntax developed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. The CPF is updated on a regular basis.. KEYWORD: emissivity, arctic, visible radiance, nasa, esip, north america, imagery, south america, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, land cover, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, usgs, eros, land use, land cover, remote sensing, australia, antarctica, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, central america, amd, geographic region, usgs, g3os, usa, usgs, landsat-7, continent, visible imagery, infrared imagery, lp daac, global, eosdis, greenland, enhanced thematic mapper plus, satellite, reflected infrared, europe, vertical location, polar, tems, amd, us, etm+, reflectance, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, landsat, 
TITLE: Hatteras Eddy Cruise 2004. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Duke   UNC Oceanographic Consortium supported a four-day exploratory cruise off North Carolina in August 2004, to survey physical and biological properties in the vicinity of the cold-core eddies which form along the inner edge of the Gulf Stream. This cruise was the result of a collaborative proposal assembled by Richard Barber, Andy Read, Larry Crowder, David Johnston, Veronica Lance, and David Hyrenbach. PURPOSE: This cruise surveyed marine bird and mammal distributions in the vicinity on the shelf-slope off North Carolina, in an area influenced by the Gulf Stream and by cold-core eddies. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: Marine bird and mammal sightings were recorded continuously, while the vessel sailed during daylight hours. The position of the vessel was also recorded every 10 seconds directly from a GPS using the Logger 2000 software, which is publicly available on the internet from the International Fund for Animal Welfare ("http:  www.ifaw.org"). CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, obis, seamap, biological classification, loggerhead sea turtle, cory's shearwater, falaropo pico largo, killer whales, arctic, wilson's phalarope, marine dolphins, north america, phalarope de wilson, eddies, cetaceans, anite de wilson, arctic tern, north carolina, sea turtles, pilot whales, sooty tern, white-tailed tropicbird, band-rumped storm-petrel, bottlenosed dolphin, animals, vertebrates, modern sea turtles, ships, beaked whales, ocean, dolphins, o de wilson, geographic region, bottlenose dolphin, continent, turtles, loggerhead, reptiles, north atlantic ocean, typical terns, obis-seamap, sterne arctique, n tonina, united states of america, wilson's storm petrel, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, pardela de audubon, tortuga-marina caguama, wilson's storm-petrel, pardela de cory, polar, rabijunco cola blanca, atlantic spotted dolphin, earth science, o de harcourt, rtico, gulf stream, seabirds, n embridado, atlantic ocean, marine turtles, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Chuckchi Sea August 1953-1954 Zooplankton vertical stratified collections on board of the Russian R V Lomonosov, program ANII A-65. ABSTRACT: Zooplankton collections were made to investigate assess interannual changes in species composition, abundance and distribution of the zooplankton in the Chuckchi Sea, one of the biologically lesser known areas of the Arctic. Vertical stratified tows (0-10 m, 10-25 m and 25 m; bottom) were done with a Nansen net (0.5 m diameter, 333 micrometer mesh) at 21 stations in August of 1953 and August of 1954. The ship that was used is R V  Lomonosov; geo-referencing of stations was done. Temperature, salinity and oxygen concentrations were measured at each depth layer. Total zooplankton abundance and biomass in the southern Chuckchi Sea were dominated by North Pacific species (e.g. Metridia pacifica, Eucalanus bungii, Neocalanus plumchrus) and they were higher in 1954 then in 1953, indicating a substantial push of the Bering Sea water onto the Arctic shelf. Pecularities of Russian name translations into English and fieldwork in Russian waters in the mid-1950 should be considered when analyzing these data. The purpose of the dataset is to assess late summer species composition, abundance and distribution of the zooplankton of the Chuckchi Sea for the years 1953-1954.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, chordates, ecological dynamics, arctic, acartiidae, apendicularia, poecilostomadoida, animalia, sessilia, cnidaria, centropagidae, fritillaridae, aquatic ecosystems, fritillaria, pseudocalanidae, vertical stratified tows, arthropoda, biosphere, campanulariidae, eucalanidae, ocean, polychaeta, hydrozoa, euphausiacea, oikopleuridae, oncaeidae, geographic region, chukchi sea, usa, usgs, harpacticoida, abundance, chordata, copelata, calanidae, plankton, species recruitment, russian exclusive economic zone, eez, annelidae, calanoida, polar, biomass, zooplankton, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, cyclopoida, hyperiidae, metridiidae, euphausiidae, amphipoda, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes air temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, maximum, minimum temperature, antarctica, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: A Preliminary Study on Oxygen Isotopes of Ice Cores from Collins Ice Cap, King George Island, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: Ice-cores of the Collins Ice Cap were all gained through the BZXJ-model ice-core drilling machine newly made by Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. During drilling and collecting ice-cores, strict protection measures against the pollution and melt were taken so that the sample as good as possible to satisfy the demands of physical and chemical analyses of ice-cores. Collected ice-cores were transported under frozen conditions from Antarctica to the low temperature laboratory of Polar Research Institute of China, partly to University of New Hampshire, USA, and were preserved under -25 degrees centigrade. Ice-cores were taken out before analyses, cut apart with a band saw on clean low-temperature working table. We scraped a few millimetres of surface ice to melt under normal air temperature. Oxygen isotope analyses of 0-13.96m depth ice-cores from Big Dome Summit of Collins Ice Cap were completed by the Glacier Research Group, Institute for the Study of Earth, Ocean and Space, University of New Hampshire, USA. Their sampling interval is 15-20cm, total is 87 samples. Oxygen isotope analyses of 13.96-20.02m depth and 27.78-30.52m depth ice-cores from Big Dome Summit of Collins Ice Cap and firn samples drawn from BDA, BDB, BDC and Small Dome Top (SDT) were completed in state key laboratory of mineralization in Nanjing University. Sampling interval (total of 10 samples) is between 30cm and 130cm, and the sampling interval of SDT (total of 20 samples) is 10-20cm.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, paleoclimate, firn, isotopes, paleo stop date, amd, cn, quaternary, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, coring devices, phanerozoic, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, paleo start date, king george island, amd, ice core records, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Harlequin Duck and waterbird winter surveys around the Wolves Islands, Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick. ABSTRACT: This data set contains boat-based winter waterbird surveys from the Wolves archipelago in the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick Canada. This area is a known wintering location of the Eastern Canadian Harlequin Duck population (appr. 50 birds). Such Harlequin Duck winter surveys were carried out since long time on an occasional and regular basis. The survey effort was shared between the Canadian Wildlife Service, the Provincial Government of New Brunswick and others. The surveys described here stem from wintering Razorbill surveys with ACWERN (Atlantic Cooperative Wildlife Ecology Research Network) and CWS, carried out by Falk Huettmann and colleagues in 1998. Surveys started at Blacks Harbour, mainland New Brunswick. They were boat-based and reported all waterbirds and sea mammals encountered. Most surveys were done during calm weather and in the late morning and noon hours. The purpose of the dataset is to provide general abundance information on wintering Harlequin Ducks, waterbirds, seabirds and sea mammals for the Wolves Archipelago in the Bay of Fundy.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, minke whale, arctic, red-breasted merganser, common loons, grand manan island, dovekie, haliaeetus leucocephalus, bonaparte's gull, waterbird ecology, great black-backed gull, puffinus, maritimes (canada), anas rubripes, harlequin duck, larus argentatus, fratercula arctica, grebe species, iceland gull, harbour seal, larus hyperboreus, animals, vertebrates, atlantic puffin, mammals, loons, new brunswick, razorbill, harbour porpoise, larus glaucoides, rissa tridactyla, phalacrocorax, humpback whale, uria, sandpipers, calidris maritima, scoter, north atlantic ocean, common eider, sea mammal surveys, shearwater species, large auk, birds, phocidae, balaenoptera acutorostrata, larus marinus, podiceps, index of relative abundance, cormorant species, corvus corax, polar, seabird monitoring, harlequin ducks, porpoises, carnivores, mergus serrator, halichoerus grypus, cepphus grylle, common loon, uria aalge, common raven, laridae, phalacrocorax carbo, atlantic canada, aves, the wolves archipelago, bird, gavia immer, true seals, purple sandpiper, cetaceans, baleen whales, long-tailed duck, bay of fundy, common murre, ocean, melanitta, geographic region, melanitta nigra, larus philadelphia, usa, usgs, balaenoptera physalus, toothed whales, histrionicus histrionicus, surf scoter, melanitta fusca, anatidae, great cormorant, alca torda, seal, bald eagle, somateria mollissima, podiceps grisegena, seals, sea lions, walruses, corvus brachyrhynchos, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, clangula hyemalis, american crow, black guillemot, gull, american black duck, alca, gray seal, phocoena phocoena, humpback whales, phoca vitulina, earth science, ceos, phocid, glaucous gull, black-legged kittiwake, waterfowl species, finback whale, red-necked grebe, white-winged scoter, alle alle, herring gull, atlantic ocean, megaptera novaeangliae, waterbird surveys, 
TITLE: Level 3.5 time-averaged VAM analyses of ocean surface wind velocity over 5-days (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov products product079.html ). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com  ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao  ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used ( http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata  ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR ( http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets  ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. The Level 3.5 data products are derived from time averaged Level 3.0 gridded VAM analyses over 5-day and monthly periods. Only those grid points with one or more analyzed observations are used in the average. 5-day means starting on the first day of each year. In leap years, the pentad starting on 2 26 will include 6-days such that the starting date for each pentad remains the same across all years. The level 3.5 data sets are stored in the Hierarchical Data Format (HDF, http:  hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu ). All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data distributed in NetCDF format ( http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf  ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "pentad_20040101_v10l35flk.nc.gz" designates a level 3.5 (l35) data set containing 5-day means for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, dmsp 5d-2, f14, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, buoys, dmsp 5d-3, f15, tmi, aqua, global ocean, radiometers, discover, amsr, trmm, adeos-ii, quikscat, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, nscat, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, advanced earth observing satellite-ii, geographic region, seawinds, indian ocean, special sensor microwave, imager, smmr, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, advanced microwave scanning radiometer, trmm microwave imager, tropical rainfall measuring mission, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, nasa scatterometer, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Polish Arctic Marine Programme (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: This represents data on Benthic fauna, Food webs and the littoral zone from the Polish Academy of Sciences; Institute of Oceanology, taken between 1981 - 1985 from 60 stations annually investigated during summer. [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: mollusks, hornsund, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, gastropods, obis, bristle worms, food-web dynamics, aquatic ecosystems, segmented worms (annelids), littoral zone, polar, census of marine life, benthic fauna, density, coml, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, bivalves, ecosystem functions, benthic habitat, ocean, food webs, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Enroute Charts, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Enroute Low (LO) and High (HI) Altitude charts provide aeronautical information for instrument navigation in the low and high airway structure of the Canadian Domestic Airspace, the airspace over foreign territory and international waters in which Canada accepts responsibility for the provision of air traffic services and other areas required for military use. The primary purpose of Enroute charts is to depict navigation data in order to provide rapid and precise location and identification of information requisite to instrument navigation. Enroute Low Altitude charts depict aeronautical radio information, airways system, controlled uncontrolled airspace structure, special use airspace, communication stations and selected aerodromes. Vertical coverage is from the surface up to, but not including 18,000' asl. Enroute High Altitude charts depict aeronautical navigation information, airways system, special use airspace, and communication stations critical for flight in the high level structure. Vertical coverage is from 18,000' asl and above. The Enroute series consists of sixteen charts which provide complete coverage of Canada (information on Quebec and the National Capital Region is presented in bilingual format). The charts are printed back-to-back on eight sheets.Used by pilots for low and high altitude instrument navigation in the airway structures. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Radio navigation aid indicators Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, terrain elevation, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, northern europe, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, bermuda, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, greenland, communications, united states of america, saskatchewan, europe, polar, earth science, ceos, iceland, land surface, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, prince edward island, infrastructure, atlantic ocean, azores, 
TITLE: Ice classes - Barents Sea. ABSTRACT: The polar regions hold large masses of water in the form of ice, and this ice has a modifying effect on temperature variations. An increase in the mean temperature of the Arctic, as has been predicted, may result in an intensified melting of the sea ice. While a compact ice cover absorbs 15-50% of the incoming solar radiation, an ice free ocean absorbs about 90%. The absorbed radiation causes warming and evaporation. A change in the ice cover may therefore drastically effect the heat budget of the sea surface. This illustrates an important self-magnifying effect of the increased heat absorption causing the acceleration of ice melting. An increased greenhouse effect due to changes in the gas composition of the atmosphere could therefore be monitored by studying the changes in the total mass of sea ice in the Arctic. Ice charts of the Barents Sea , with the ice separated in ten ice classes, weekly, from 1966 to 1989. The classes are from open water to dense pack ice. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 1 Raster Name: *.BPIX files - internal format of Norwegian Polar Institute Raster Summary: Raster files received from the Norwegian Polar Institute in their own internal format. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 2 Raster Name: ArcInfo grids representing sea ice in the barents region Raster Summary: ArcInfo grids representing the barents sea ice cover from 1966 to 1989. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 3 Raster Name: ArcInfo grids for january 1989. Raster Summary: Five ArcInfo grids representing ice coverage in January 1989. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 4 Raster Name: Arcinfo grid of sea ice for February 1989. Raster Summary: ArcInfo grid representing sea ice cover for February 1989. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 5 Raster Name: ArcInfo grid of sea ice for January - year unknown. Raster Summary: ArcInfo grid representing sea ice cover in January - year unknown. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 6 Raster Name: Arcinfo grid of sea ice Raster Summary: ArcInfo grid representing sea ice - date unknown. Need better documentation for this grid - need to know the coverage date. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 7 Raster Name: ArcInfo grid of sea ice for July and August Raster Summary: ArcInfo grid representing sea ice cover for July and August, year unknown. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 8 Raster Name: ArcInfo grid of minimum sea ice extent for 1989. Raster Summary: Arcinfo grid representing minimum sea ice extent for 1989. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 9 Vector Name: Vector coverages of ice extent Feature_type: polygons Vector Summary: Vector coverages representing ice extent for the years 1966 through to 1989. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 10 Vector Name: Vector ArcInfo coverages of sea ice extent Feature_type: polygons Vector Summary: Vector coverages representing sea ice extent for the years 1966 through to 1989. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 11 Vector Name: Clipping area for the barents sea region Feature_type: polygon Vector Summary: ArcInfo clipping vector coverage of the Barents sea region. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 12 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of July-August ice extent Feature_type: polygon Vector Summary: ArcInfo vector coverage representing the ice extent for July and August. Year unknown. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, sea ice concentration, freshwater resources, snow and ice, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ice, oceans and seas, surface water, unep, grid, ocean, snow, rivers, streams, sea ice, oceans, un, freshwater, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, barents sea, 
TITLE: Toporama, Canada. ABSTRACT: Toporama provides easy Internet access to free maps of Canada. This product is raster representation of part of the National Topographic Data Base (NTDB) at the 1:250 000 scale for all of Canada. Using representations features, such as symbols, screens, and colors, it is possible to produce an image from vector data (comprised of points, lines, and areas). Simple navigation tools and a legend are provided to make it easier to find your way around. You can also search by National Topographic System (NTS) map sheet number. In addition, there is a series of index cards that users can consult to guide them to the area for which they want images. The images are available in GIF format. Also, the data are projected in latitude and longitude, except for the northern part of the country (above the 68th parallel) for which the universal transverse Mercator projection is used. To view a map, just visit the Toporama Web site and click on a region. You can even save images and import them into other software applications.Toporama offers a wealth of utilities to help you get geographic information such as a city, a lake, or a road. You can also use Toporama to plan a trip, get geographic or cartographic data for personal use, geographically analyze a specific area, and much more. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, landscape patterns, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, landscape, 
TITLE: RADARSAT International Catalog. ABSTRACT: RSI's broad range of products are derived from the majority of commercially available Earth-observation satellites: RADARSAT-1, LANDSAT 4 5, LANDSAT 7, IKONOS, IRS, ERS, QuickBird, and ENVISAT. RSI augments its product offerings with services including processing, GIS, consulting, training, and near-real time production and delivery. By combining satellite data-derived information with other data sources such as climate filed data, baseline geographic information, and Internet-based information, RSI is successfully responding to today's changing operational business needs. RSI's core business is the worldwide distribution, processing, and delivery of RADARSAT data products. The RADARSAT-1 satellite was successfully launched November 4, 1995, and is owned and operated by the Canadian Space Agency (CSA). RADARSAT-1 imagery products offer high-quality, timely, and cost-effective solutions to natural resource management and environmental operations. Equipped with a unique and powerful synthetic aperture radar (SAR), RADARSAT-1 is able to dependably acquire scenes of virtually any location on the Earth regardless of weather or light conditions, and products can be reliably delivered to anywhere in the world. RSI offers near-real time delivery of data (within 3 hours of downlink to certain RADARSAT-1 Network Stations) to clients with time-critical operations such as disaster management and ship navigation. Continuity of the program is assured with follow-on satellites: RADARSAT-2 is scheduled for launch in late 2004 and will be distributed worldwide (outside of the US) by RSI. To ensure prompt product delivery and consistently high-quality client service, RSI has established an international network of over 80 distributors, and 14 international ground receiving stations. RSI's in-house data processing expertise offers clients fast delivery and the opportunity to customize products to suit specific operational requirements. Data is available on a variety of media such as CD-ROM and 8-mm data cartridge, and is deliverable either by courier or electronically. In choosing the appropriate satellite data source and product you will need to consider the following: * Location: geographic area and type of terrain * Scale: level of detail required * Application: type of information extracted from data * Quality: reliability of the data sources * Timing: how quickly the data is required * Format: appropriate data format Prices: Each satellite offers important features and benefits to clients, such as a selection of viewing angles, coverage area, and resolution. These technical specifications vary considerably and must be taken into account when evaluating prices and the specific requirements of the client's project operation. The approximate price for a full scene, Path Image product, on CD-ROM, is: RADARSAT Standard: USD 2,750   CAD 3,725 ERS: USD 1,100   CAD 1,600 LANDSAT 7 ETM+: USD 600   CAD 900 Data is also available from IKONOS, earlier LANDSAT missions, and QuickBird. Prices exclude premiums for programming, processing, and delivery. RSI can provide you with a customized solution to your unique information requirements. Please contact Client Services for further information, or visit www.rsi.ca Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, terrain elevation, mid-latitude, arctic, seismic profile, northern hemisphere, farming activity, global land, ice types, north america, sea ice, global ocean, human dimensions, eddies, eastern hemisphere, land cover, amd, ca, land productivity, topography, land use, land cover, monitoring, antarctica, landforms, upwelling, downwelling, canada, cgdi, canada, erosion, southern hemisphere, oceans, amd, geographic region, western hemisphere, geologic mapping, continent, shorelines, gcmd, seismology, base mapping, global, crops, wind shear, equatorial, ice edges, ocean waves, polar, ocean winds, fronts, erosion, sedimentation, wave spectra, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, landscape patterns, coastal processes, shoreline displacement, coastal zone mapping, landscape, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Nimbus-7 SMMR Pathfinder Daily EASE-Grid Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of brightness temperatures (TBs) acquired from the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) on board the Nimbus-7 Pathfinder satellite. The TBs have been gridded onto the Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid) and are presented in three different projections: Northern Hemisphere, Southern Hemisphere, and global. The SMMR EASE-Grid data were derived from SMMR brightness temperatures in swath format (level 1b data). Coverage is global, and data are available from 25 October 1978 through 20 August 1987. The spatial resolution is 25 km for all channels (6.6, 10.7, 18, 21, and 37 GHz for both vertical and horizontal polarizations). Both TB and time files are provided for a given projection in flat binary format for each day. The TBs are provided in tenths of kelvins and the time files are in minutes since 0:00 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of the date of the enclosing file. Data are available via FTP. Users may also order data on CD-ROM (while supplies last) or through the Web-based Graphical Interface for Subsetting, Mapping, and Ordering (GISMO).. KEYWORD: ease, arctic, ease-grid, global, smmr, usa, noaa, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, brightness temperatures, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, nimbus-7, northern hemisphere, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, spectral, engineering, microwave, antarctic, gridded data, polar, pathfinder, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, passive microwave, radiometer, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, southern hemisphere, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canadian Gravity Standardization Net (CGSN). ABSTRACT: The Canadian Gravity Standardization Net (CGSN) provides a nationwide gravity datum defined by 5737 control stations, systematically distributed throughout Canada. The adjustment of the CGSN is based on the International Gravity Standardization Net (IGSN71), and therefore the datum definition is considered accurate to several tens of microgals.The CGSN is used in the least squares adjustment of Canadian and other national gravity standardization nets and gravimeter calibration lines. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, vertical, nunavut, northwest territories, cgsn, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, gravity datum, saskatchewan, international gravity standardization net, surveying, igsn71, yukon territory, reference systems, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, land surface, canadian gravity standardization network, quebec, alberta, deflection, canada, cgdi, absolute gravity, canada, prince edward island, geoid, new brunswick, microgals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: PANGAEA - Publishing Network for Geological and Environmental Data. ABSTRACT: The information system PANGAEA is a public data library aimed at archiving, publishing and distributing georeferenced data from earth system research. Data are are freely available. The system is open to any individual scientist or project for archiving, complete data collections or supplements to publications. The author receives a DOI as a stable pointer and reference to the data.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, solid earth, idn_node esrin, dlr, world ocean, germany, dlr, arctic, mineralogy, amd, de, paleoclimate, equatorial, paleoclimate proxies, marine geology, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, marine sediments, sediment composition, polar, models, geochemistry, southern ocean, paleoceanography, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, crust, sediment core repositories, ocean, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, micropaleontology, indian ocean, sediments, 
TITLE: Climate Database for the Long-Term Ecological Research Network (LTER). ABSTRACT: The National Science Foundation's (NSF) Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) program and many U. S. Forest Service Experimental Research Stations collect and maintain extensive, long-term ecological databases including streamflow and meteorological measurements. These databases have been widely used in intersite comparisons, modeling studies, and land management-related studies. To facilitate intersite research among the network of LTER sites, information managers have developed a prototype to provide climatic summaries dynamically over the Internet ("http:  www.fsl.orst.edu climhy climdb "), and serves as one model for improving access to data across sites (Baker et al. 2000, Henshaw et al. 1998). Individual sites maintain local climate data in local information systems while a centralized site continually harvests, updates, and provides access to all sites' data through a common database. Common distribution report formats and graphical displays have been established to meet specific needs of climate data users. Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) sites have generally followed established LTER Climate Committee guidelines (Greenland 1986) for collecting baseline meteorological data. Standardized measurements provide a basis for coordinating meteorological measurements at two or more sites and enable intersite comparisons. However, access to comparable datasets from multiple sites is problematic. While most sites make climate data accessible via the World-Wide Web (WWW), the data are displayed in a variety of formats, are aggregated using different methods, and are often not easily located. For more information, see: "http:  www.fsl.orst.edu climhy documents climhydro_userguide.htm". KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, ecological research, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, alaska, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, land and freshwater resources, terrestrial hydrosphere, climate change, ground-based observations, ecological research programs, ecological research sites, climate data, wind speed, wind direction, agriculture and food security, solar radiation, biosphere, maximum, minimum temperature, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, atmospheric winds, discharge, flow, canada, water vapor, meteorological data, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, snow depth, continent, air temperature, agriculture, united states of america, water quality, water chemistry, soils, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, climate, usa, nasa, environmental protection, atmospheric pressure, rivers, streams, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Historical Canadian Climate Database - Monthly Homogenized Precipitation and Temperature Data Sets. ABSTRACT: Monthly Rehabilitated Precipitation and Homogenized Temperature Data Sets Climate Research Branch (CCRM) - Environment Canada. A database of homogenized and long-term temperature and precipitation time series has been specifically designed for climate change analyses over Canada. Temperature: The data consist of monthly maximum, minimum and mean temperatures for 210 locations across the country. Series extend back to 1895 where possible: however, data availability over most of the Canadian Arctic is restricted to the mid-1940s to present. Homogeneity problems caused by station relocation and changes in observing procedures were addressed using a regression model technique applied with surrounding stations. Monthly adjustments were obtained for identified inhomogeneities (the cause was often retrieved from the station history files) and a database of monthly maximum, minimum and mean temperatures was created. Precipitation: A total of 495 locations, most with data covering the period 1895-present were used. Data availability in much of the Canadian Arctic was restricted to 1948-present. Adjustments were applied on daily basis for rain and snow separately. Metadata file was created containing all information about the different precipitation measurement programs. For each rain gauge type, different adjustments to account for wind undercatch, evaporation and wetting loss were implemented. For snowfall, ruler measurements were used throughout the time series in order to minimize potential discontinuities introduced by the adoption of Nipher shielded gauge in the mid-1960s. Snow density adjustments based upon coincident ruler and Nipher observations were mapped over the country and applied to the ruler observations. Great care was taken to properly account for the trace measurements.To provide Canadian precipitation and temperature data sets for climate research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, monthly rainfall, precipitation amount, rainfall adjustment, atmospheric temperature, snowfall adjustment, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, station data, corrected data, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, monthly precipitation, rain, monthly snowfall, trace precipitation, nova scotia, evaporation loss, maximum, minimum temperature, canada, cgdi, canada, snow, instrumental inhomogeneities, new brunswick, monthly minimum temperature, geographic region, snow ruler, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, air temperature, nunavut, northwest territories, saskatchewan, canadian arctic, homogenized data, polar, adjusted data, wind-induced undercatch, monthly maximum temperature, ground station, earth science, monthly mean temperature, ceos, liquid water equivalent, quebec, alberta, prince edward island, wetting loss, 
TITLE: Data set of water temperature under the ice floe(CNIS7) in Arctic Ocean from Aug.25 to Sep.4 of 2003 by the 2nd Chinese Arctic Research Expedition. ABSTRACT: This data set is part of ice physical properties investigations in the Second Chinese Arctic Research Expedition in the year 2003. Tt is water temperature under the ice flow; 8 measuring units put on the flow, they are arranged to a line with intervals (20m,50m,100m,150m,200m,250m), 2 measuring units put on 150m and 5m from the edge of floe.first unit is 30m from the tent. Each unit is composed of 8 probes at levels (0m,0.5m,1m,1.5,2m,5m,15m,20m) under the flow. measuring interval is 1 min. All data have done the quality control and with text description.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, temperature profilers, arctic, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, field surveys, ocean, oceans, arctic, cn, geographic region, 
TITLE: The Living Marine Resources Program. ABSTRACT: The Living Marine Resources (LMR) program assembles information on the spatial and temporal distributions and characteristics of selected coastal and marine species. These data are used to describe and illustrate the diversity of species within the estuarine, coastal, and oceanic waters of the United States. Data also are collected on such variables as management and commercial usage of the selected species and biological aspects of the surrounding marine environment. The relative abundance and spatial distribution over time is examined for a variety of important coastal and marine species. Species are selected according to a set of criteria, which consider their economic value; endangered, threatened, or protected status; and ecological importance (defined in such terms as being a major component of the ecosystem, a major food source, or a competitor with other important species for food). Representative species include marine and estuarine fishes and invertebrates; seabirds and ocean-associated waterfowl; and marine mammals. The number and variety of species examined by the LMR program differ for each coastal region. LMR data describe and illustrate the life history of selected species across space and through time. Much of this information is presented in the form of regional data maps. These maps display such species-specific data as overall distribution; areas of adult and juvenile abundance; important reproduction sites, such as spawning areas or nesting sites; migration and movement patterns; and areas that are important for other life history functions, such as feeding areas, and migration staging areas. Information also is provided on such topics as species classification; worldwide range; human uses (commercial, recreational and subsistence); habitat requirements (boundary divisions, substrate type, and salinity ranges); social behavior; feeding behavior; reproduction characteristics; development and growth characteristics; factors influencing population (natural, human-related, and potential vulnerabilities); population size; and management practices. In addition, LMR data describe and illustrate important marine ecosystem characteristics, including patterns of primary productivity (phytoplankton), zooplankton biomass, and benthic biomass. The LMR program includes data for all major coastal regions of the United States, excluding the Great Lakes. Data are organized separately into four regional components: The East Coast; Gulf of Mexico; West Coast; and the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort Seas. Separate data bases identify marine mammal and seabird distributions for the entire West Coast of North America, from the Bering strait to the Baja Peninsula. For each coastal region the study area extends from inshore, estuarine basins to offshore waters, within and beyond the 200 mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Information Products: Program results are summarized in a series of regional assessment reports. In addition, LMR data are presented with other information associated with coastal and offshore environments in a series of regional strategic assessment data atlases. Individual data maps also are produced for specific species and regions. A desktop computer information system (CMas), developed to examine and analyze LMR data is described below. These reports are available at cost or as PDF files: "http:  spo.nwr.noaa.gov olo99.htm" and "http:  www.st.nmfs.gov st2 tm_spo19 spo19.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, ecological dynamics, usa, noaa, demersal habitat, menhaden fisheries, north america, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, north pacific ocean, ocean chemistry, sea turtles, pelagic habitat, biosphere, regional threatened species, shellfish fisheries, animals, vertebrates, drum and croaker fisheries, ecosystem functions, coast, conservation, primary production, mammals, ocean, gulf of mexico, organic matter, oceans, gosic, anadromous fisheries, chukchi sea, groundfish fisheries, continent, reptiles, coastal fisheries, north atlantic ocean, gulf of alaska, birds, alaska salmon, shark fisheries, agriculture, biomass dynamics, bottomfish and armorhead fisheries, united states of america, species competition, pacific coast salmon, demersal fisheries, plankton, coastal habitat, pelagic fisheries, invertebrate fisheries, bering sea, species predation, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, agricultural aquatic sciences, beaufort sea, aquaculture, species, population interactions, fish, endangered species, fisheries, atlantic ocean, estuarine habitat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Data set of the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 9th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1992 1993. ABSTRACT: From November of 1992 to April of 1993, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 9th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, salinometers, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, thermometers, amd, global ocean, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Radiocarbon Dates and Pollen Data, Peterson Erosional Remnant, Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of pollen data and radiocarbon (C14) dates resulting from microscopic analysis and mass spectrometry of soil cores taken from the Peterson Erosional Remnant, located on the Arctic Coastal Plain near Barrow, Alaska. Data are contained in four files, and include raw pollen counts listed by depth; counts for each coded pollen or microfossil type for each depth; the percent of each pollen or microfossil type by depth; radiocarbon (C14) dates expressed in calibrated years BP; and a pollen dictionary of codes used and Latin pollen microfossil names. Data are in ASCII format, and are available via FTP. These data are part of a study of paleoenvironment, processes, and carbon stocks of thaw-lake basins on the Arctic Coastal Plain. The Peterson Erosional Remnant is a "non-basin" site that can be used to determine the overall age of the landscape in which thaw lakes have formed and drained.. KEYWORD: microfossils, nsidc, continent, paleovegetation, pollen, arctic coastal plain, cenozoic, arcss, laii, holocene, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, arctic system science, usa, nsf, northern hemisphere, united states of america, north america, ocean, lake records, mass spectrometers, alaska, microscopes, quaternary, land records, barrow, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, coring devices, phanerozoic, biosphere, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, arcss136, opp-0240174, paleo start date 9000 ybp, radiocarbon, geographic region, opp-0240338, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Canadian Cryospheric Information Network Database. ABSTRACT: Access to timely, comprehensive, and quality cryospheric data is an obstacle to improved knowledge and understanding of the cryosphere in Canada. Important datasets often reside in various government and university labs where they remain largely unknown or access restrictions prevent effective use. Through a data and information management infrastructure, the Canadian Cryospheric Information Network (CCIN) addresses these problems by improving availability and access to Canadian cryospheric datasets. Developed in concert with the CRYSYS project, as a collaborative partnership between the Federal Government (Canadian Space Agency, Meteorological Service of Canada, Natural Resources Canada), University of Waterloo and Noetix Research Inc., the CCIN has established a one-stop entry point for researchers to discover and access legacy data, near real-time data, current state of the cryosphere information, on-demand statistical-graph analysis, and dynamic linkages to other major data providers including GeoConnections, The Climate and Cryosphere Project, and the National Snow and Ice Data Center. All data provided by the CCIN, locally or remotely, is accessible via the World Wide Web. Beyond data storage, distribution, and providing tools for graphical analysis, CCIN has invested in outreach initiatives for greater visibility within the public community. The CCIN presents special online sections for cryosphere news, the media, and a youth oriented Canadian cryosphere website comprised of facts, quizzes and interactive games. As a data and information centre, CCIN continues to build upon its aggregate features to improve existing tools, implement new technologies, to promote the awareness of the Canadian cryosphere, while progressing with data collection and data rescue.To provide accurate and timely information on cryospheric variability and change to the public and decision makers. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: swe, canadian cryosphere summer 1998, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, satellite imagery, north america, ontario, sea ice, simms project datasets, lakeice, nova scotia, national snow information system for water, ccin, canada, cgdi, canada, snow, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, c-ice datasets, nunavut, northwest territories, sea ice data sets, glacier data sets, saskatchewan, ice motion of arctic, snow, ice, arctic polar shelf data, yukon territory, polar, permafrost data, earth science, cryosphere, freshwater ice data sets, ceos, inrs-eau datasets, quebec, alberta, arctic snow and permafrost data, prince edward island, snow data sets, snow water equivalent, landsat, 
TITLE: Catalog of boreholes from Russia and Mongolia. ABSTRACT: This catalog of boreholes from across Russia and Mongolia includes those published in papers and monographs as well as other literature of limited circulation. The 122 boreholes were used to derive a characterization of the Russian territory according to eight geocryological regions. Five boreholes are included for Mongolia. Data from these boreholes were used in the generation of the Circum-arctic Map of Permafrost and Ground-Ice Conditions (Brown et al., 1997). Data obtained from various sources as noted within each borehole entry. The time period varies for each borehole, but is primarily from the late 1980s to early 1990s. Observation methods include 'Standard logging', a combined natural gamma logging, electric logging and well caliper logging; 'Geothermal observations' which demonstrate the thickness of layer with the temperature below zero (data of Yakutsk Permafrost Institute, Siberian Branch, Academy of Sciences of the USSR); visual observations on ice-content in the core, and depth of appearance of fresh water table; thermologging of the boreholes (studies of 'PGO Yakutskgeologia'); and electric, well caliper and thermal logging in pioneer and exploratory oil and gas wells ('PGO Lenaneftegasgeologia' studies). The permafrost base is exposed by a number of adjacent boreholes; interval of fluctuations of permafrost depth is shown. The data are presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, ggd, geocryology, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, agriculture, soil depth, boreholes, thermal properties, russia, geothermal, geothermal temperature, mongolia, soil temperature, permafrost properties, soils, snow, ice, land records, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, asia, eastern asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, eastern europe, permafrost, frozen ground, soil properties, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected IKMT by 16th CHINARE. ABSTRACT: 16 IKMT planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Dissolved Mn in the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Sampling and Analytical Methodology: Samples were taken using 24 internally Teflon-coated PVC 12 litre GO-FLO Samplers (General Oceanics Inc.) mounted on an all-titanium frame (De Baar et al., 2008). This frame was connected to a 17.7 mm diameter Kevlar hydrowire with seven independent internal signal conductor cables (Cousin Trestec S.A.) and controlled from onboard. Each GO-FLO sampler had a special ultraclean all-teflon PTFE valve (Cole Parmer; PN A-06392-31) installed. Samples for trace metal analysis were collected from the GO-FLO bottles in a class 100 clean room environment. The water was filtered over a 0.2 m filter cartridge (Sartrobran-300, Sartorius) under pressure (1.5 atm) of (in-line prefiltered) nitrogen gas exerted via a special connector instead of the regular air bleeding valve at the top of each GO-FLO sampler. Sub-samples for Mn were taken in cleaned LDPE sample bottles (125 mL) from each GO-FLO bottle. All sample bottles were rinsed five times with the sample seawater. Analyses of dissolved Manganese (Mn) were performed on shipboard with the method developed by Doi et al. (2004) with some slight modifications in the preparation and brands of the chemicals used. Furthermore, samples were buffered in-line with an ammonium borate sample buffer (see text below). Samples were acidified with 12 M ultraclean HCl (Baseline Hydrochloric Acid, Seastar Chemicals Inc.) to a pH of 1.8 and stored inside double plastic bags in plastic crates. At the home institute, in a flow injection system, the samples were buffered in-line to a pH of 8.5  0.2 with ammonium borate sample buffer. This buffer was produced by dissolving 30.9 grams of boric acid (Suprapure, Merck) in 1 L MQ water and adjusting the pH to 9.4 with ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure, Merck). Dissolved Mn in the buffered sample was preconcentrated for 200 seconds on a Toyopearl AFChelate 650M (TesoHaas, Germany) column. Hereafter the column was rinsed for 60 seconds with MQ water to remove interfering salts. The Mn was subsequently eluted from the column for 200 seconds with a solution of 0.1M three times quartz distilled formic acid (reagent grade, Merck) containing 0.1 M hydrogen peroxide (Suprapure, Merck) and 12 mM ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure, Merck). The pH of this carrier solution was adjusted to 2.9  0.05. The eluate with the dissolved Mn passed a second column of immobilized 8-hydroxyquinoline (Landing et al., 1986) to remove interfering iron ions in the carrier solution (Doi et al., 2004). Hereafter the carrier mixed subsequently with 0.7 M ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure Merck) and a luminol solution. The latter luminol solution was made by diluting 600 l luminol stock solution and 10 l TETA (triethylenetetramine, Merck) in 1 L MQ. The luminol stock solution was made by diluting 270 mg luminol (3-aminophtalhydrazide, Aldrich) and 500 mg potassium carbonate in 15 ml MQ. The resulting mixture of carrier solution, ammonium hydroxide and luminol solution had a pH of 10.2  0.05 and entered a 3 meter length mixing coil placed in a water bath of 25C. Hereafter the chemiluminescence was detected with a Hamamatsu HC135 Photon counter. Concentrations of dissolved Mn were calculated in nanomolL-1 (nM) from the photon emission peak height (see below). The system was calibrated using standard additions from a 5000 nM Mn stock solution (Fluka) to filtered acidified seawater with low concentrations of Mn that was collected in the region. A five-points calibration line (0, 0.36, 0.73, 1.46 and 2.18 nM standard additions) and blank determination were made daily. The 3 lowest points (0, 0.36 and 0.73 nM) of the calibration line were measured in triplicate and the 2 highest points in duplicate to add more weight to the lower part of the calibration line. The blank was determined by measuring column cleaned seawater. Latter was obtained by passing seawater over a Toyopearl AFChelate 650M and an 8-hydroxyquinoline column which retained the dissolved Mn. The average blank value was 20 pM. The limit of detection defined as three times the standard deviation of the blank was < 0.01 nM. The flow injection system was rinsed every day with a 0.5 M HCl solution. Data Processing: A standard was measured in triplicate every day. This standard was a sub-sample of a 25 L volume of filtered seawater that was taken at the beginning of the cruise in the Barents Sea. The relative standard deviation of the replicate analysis seawater sample that was analysed 22 times on different days in triplicate was 2.19%. The relative standard deviation on the separate days was on average 1.21 %. The average concentration of Mn of this standard was 1.0 nM and the deviation from this average for a given measuring day was used as a correction factor. To verify whether this correction was decreasing the inter-daily variability in the dataset, every day a sample which was collected and measured the previous measuring day, was analysed once again. The deviation between the concentrations measured on the different days decreased from 3.28% to 2.68%, indicating the data correction procedure is beneficial. As an independent comparison, the certification samples collected on the American SAFe cruise (Johnson et al., 2007) were analysed in triplicate for Mn. The resulting concentrations of Mn for both SAFe Surface (S) and SAFe deep (D2) from 1000 m, agreed very nicely the community consensus value that is starting to emerge on the absolute concentrations of Mn in the SAFe samples. The dataset was scanned for obvious outliers and these have been quality flagged with the number 4. Some samples gave anomalous nutrient results for the intended depth and were assumed to have been closed at the wrong depth and quality flagged with the number 8. In the Laptev Sea some very high concentrations of Mn were observed and these were out of range for the method used and flagged with the number 5. All other values are assumed to be correct and flagged with the number 0.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, ocean chemistry, geotraces, arctic, earth science, dissolved manganese, manganese, r, v polarstern, flow injection analysis, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, trace elements, ipy, ocean, arctic, nl, ipy-nl, international polar year, oceans, geographic region, fia, 
TITLE: Topographic Map Indexes for all United States and Antarctica; USGS. ABSTRACT: Topographic Map Indexes for all States is a series of indexes and order forms of standard and special maps available from the U.S. Geological Survey as well as an index to the National Park system. Coverage of the indexes is the United States and Antarctica.. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, arctic, aedd, topo, rivers, stream habitat, north america, alaska, geography, spectral, engineering, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, marine habitat, alaska and antarctica, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, us, infrared wavelengths, cities, topography, vegetation cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, topographical relief, amd, geographic region, usgs, usa, usgs, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landcover, vegetation, infrared imagery, united states, geology, wetlands, national park, united states of america, lakes, cultural features, park, elevation, polar, amd, us, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, contours, infrastructure, rivers, streams, 
TITLE: Culture collection of microbioorganism from polar environments. ABSTRACT: There are information on 150 strains of bacteria and actinomyctes in the date base of Culture Collection of Microorganisms from Polar Environments. The strains will be updated every year.. KEYWORD: strain, polar, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ships, bacteria, archaea, ocean, laboratory, amd, cn, microorganism, amd, arctic, cn, geographic region, 
TITLE: BIGFOOT NPP SURFACES FOR NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICAN SITES, 2000-2004. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BigFoot project gathered Net Primary Production (NPP) data for nine EOS Land Validation Sites located from Alaska to Brazil from 2000 to 2004. Each site is representative of one or two distinct biomes, including the Arctic tundra; boreal evergreen needleleaf forest; temperate cropland, grassland, evergreen needleleaf forest, and deciduous broadleaf forest; desert grassland and shrubland; and tropical evergreen broadleaf forest. At this time we are archiving Northern Old Black Spruce (NOBS - BOREAS NSA, Canada) and Harvard Forest LTER (HARV - Massachusetts, USA) data collected in 2001.The NPP surfaces were produced by a spatial version of an ecosystem process model named, Biome-BGC. Inputs to the model included Landsat ETM+ derived Land Cover and LAI, tower derived meteorological variables, and a set of site-level ecophysical parameters. The model was calibrated using field measured NPP and validated by tower derived estimates of GPP. Each BigFoot NPP product covers a 7 x 7 km extent and consists of the NPP surface in ASCII Raster (BIL - Band Interleaved by Line) format (280 rows by 280 columns at 25 meter resolution) and an accompanying text file which provides metadata specific to the image (such as projection, data type, etc).igFoot Project Background: Reflectance data from MODIS, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer onboard NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite Terra (http:  landval.gsfc.nasa.gov MODIS index.php), is used to produce several science products including land cover, leaf area index (LAI), gross primary production (GPP) and net primary production (NPP). The overall goal of the BigFoot Project was to provide validation of these products. To do this, BigFoot combined ground measurements, additional high resolution remote sensing data, and ecosystem process models at nine flux tower sites representing different biomes to evaluate the effects of the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem characteristics on MODIS products. BigFoot characterized up to a 7 x 7 km area (49 MODIS pixels) surrounding the CO2 flux towers located at each of the nine sites. We collected multi-year, in situ measurements of ecosystem structure and functional characteristics related to the terrestrial carbon cycle. Our sampling design allowed us to examine scales and spatial pattern of these properties, the inter-annual variability and validity of MODIS products, and provided for a field-based ecological characterization of the flux tower footprint. BigFoot was funded by NASA's Terrestrial Ecology Program.. KEYWORD: konz, alaksa, manitoba, ecological dynamics, echo, balance, temperate mixed forest, massachusetts, metolius, cropland, validation, modis, barrow, metl, gpp, tapa, tallgrass prairie, harvard forest lter, biosphere, kansas, sevi, ecosystem functions, temperate needleleaf forest, primary production, canada, earth observing system data information system, tapajos, tund, brazil, bigfoot, illinois, vegetation, sevilleta lter, harv, agro, otter, eosdis, desert grassland, earth science information partners program, park falls, konza prairie, wisconsin, nobs, boreal forest, earth science, usa, nasa, field investigation, arctic tundra, bondville, esip, new mexico, oregon cascades, boreas, cheq, tropical broadleaf evergreen forest, 
TITLE: Arctic Cyclone Track Data Set, 1966-1993. ABSTRACT: This data set comprises a 28-year record (1 May 1966 through 31 December 1993) of twice-daily extra tropical cyclone statistics for the Northern Hemisphere. Data were obtained from application of the updated Serreze (1995) algorithm to National Meteorological Center (NMC) sea level pressure (SLP) fields for the 47x51 octagonal grid. The data set includes the position and central pressure of each cyclone, whether the observation represents a cyclogenesis or cyclolysis event (from the first and last observation of each system), and the local Laplacian (105 mb m-2) and sea level pressure tendency (SLPT) (mb (12h-1)) at each cyclone center.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsf, nsidc, sea level pressure, arcss, laii, arctic, cyclolysis, usa, noaa, anticyclones, cyclones, arctic system science, cyclones, arcss003, usa, nsf, tropical storms, northern hemisphere, cyclogenesis, differential pressure, tropical cyclones, polar, sea level pressure tendency, atmospheric phenomena, pressure tendency, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, laplacian pressure, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, adcc, opp, atmospheric pressure, national science foundation, soil heat flux transducer, geographic region, storms, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Russian Ice Island Upper Air Data (DSI-6355). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: USSR Ice Island Rawindsonde is historical digital data set DSI-6355, archived at the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). This is meteorological upper air data from ice islands in the Arctic Ocean, collected by the old Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). The period of record is 1950-91. Major parameters in upper air data sets are: geopotential height, pressure, temperature, relative humidity, and wind speed and direction. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: data set CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition Pricing is dependent on customer order specifications. Please contact NCDC for information on fees and terms for retreiving the Data Set or Product.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, altitude, atmospheric temperature, altimeters, balloons, arctic, wind profiles, air temperature, usa, noaa, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, earth science information partners program, pressure thickness, humidity, radiosondes, g3os, , surface winds, polar, earth science, ceos, anemometers, atmospheric water vapor, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ocean, gosic, esip, geographic region, vertical wind motion, dew point temperature, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Canadian Permafrost Thickness. ABSTRACT: Observations on the depth to the base of permafrost across Canada (Geological Survey of Canada Project 870023) from geothermal and geophysical records. Working file contains confidential information.This database is used to provide the relationship of permafrost to climate and to the recent geological history of regions of the north. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, environmental geology, geomorphology, gcmd, engineering geology, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, hydrogeology, northwest territories, marine geology, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surficial, saskatchewan, surficial geology, geomorphology, soils, vertical location, polar, hydrology, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, climate, quebec, alberta, environment, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Benthic Information System for the Yukon. ABSTRACT: Benthic Information System for the Yukon (BISY): A relational database of stream and wetland information for the Yukon and selected areas of Northern BC containing raw data on freshwater benthic invertebrates, stream and wetland sediment chemistry (on-line), location information, georeferencing (decimal degrees), in situ measements, periphyton, digital images and selected in-stream video (CD version). The BISY contains nearly all historical as well as current benthic information from the Yukon (1973 to present) and is updated annually. The BISY has been developed using Micorsoft Access (Office 2000 version) portions of which are accessible online or the entire database is available on CD. The online version is GIS supported. CD users must have experience in using Microsoft Access.the BISY is designed as a repository of all relevant freshwater benthic information for the Yukon from published and unpublished government, industry and private sector sources. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: All data georeferenced to decimal degrees. Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, british columbia, metals, northern, northern hemisphere, north america, freshwater, terrestrial hydrosphere, substrate, benthic epifauna, benthic infauna, geochemistry, benthic animals, water, surface water, yukon, canada, cgdi, canada, northern british columbia, geographic region, western hemisphere, sediments, stream sediment, continent, gcmd, gis, wetlands, ecology, trace elements, creek, stream, benthic, lakes, invertebrate, yukon territory, polar, boreal, earth science, ceos, minor elements, in situ, major elements, macroinvertebrates, lake sediment, rivers, streams, periphyton, subarctic, river, georeference, 
TITLE: POLES Sea Ice Model Forcing Data Set. ABSTRACT: This data set provides atmospheric fields which can be used as forcing fields for driving dynamic thermodynamic sea ice models of the Arctic Ocean. Geostrophic winds are calculated from the twice daily IABP sea-level pressures blended with the daily NCAR reanalysis sea level pressures. The thermal forcing is calculated based on Parkinson and Washington(1979) using IABP-POLES surface air temperature data provided by I. Rigor. Ocean velocity and heat flux are output from a coupled ice-ocean model. The sea ice model is a multi-category thickness distribution model and the ocean model is a 3D primitive equation model(see Zhang et al.1998). There are two sets of files. One set contains the geostrophic winds, the other the thermal forcing data. The filenames are in the form: poles_frc_therm.<yyyy>.<version> and poles_frc_wind.<yyyy>.<version> where yyyy is the year, and version refers to a version number. The data are flat binary files (no headers) consisting of short integers. The data were written as unformatted direct access files on an HP workstation using HP-UX 10.20.Byte order may have to be changed if you are using a machine using a different byte order (e.g. DEC, ooops Compac machines). A Fortran program demonstrating how to read the data is provided. The specific structure of the data set should be apparent from that program.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar exchange at the sea surface, arctic ocean, shortwave radiation, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eos, earth science information partners program, sea ice, humidity, ice velocity, heat flux, snow, ice, mean velocity at 40m, polar, mean 1979-1993, models, poles, earth science, cryosphere, atmospheric stratification, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, bathymetry, seafloor topography, nasa, convergence, divergence, longwave radiation, water depth, earth observing system, ocean, water vapor, ocean heat budget, ice depth, thickness, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Environmental Working Group Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas. ABSTRACT: The Environmental Working Group (EWG) was established in June 1995 under the framework of the U.S.-Russian Joint Commission on Economic and Technological Cooperation. In order to expand scientific understanding of the Arctic, the EWG Arctic Climatology Project compiled digital data for arctic regions in January 1996. This work led to a set of three atlases on CD-ROM for arctic oceanography, sea ice, and meteorology. U.S. and Russian partners developed the EWG Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas. The U.S. Navy submarine and Meteorology and Oceanography (METOC) community strongly supported this project. The U.S. Arctic Submarine Laboratory and the National Ice Center (NIC) Naval Ice Center (NAVICE)--a joint agency supported by the U.S. Navy, NOAA, and the U.S. Coast Guard--prepared the data. The Russian Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) in St. Petersburg contributed sea ice data and analyses. The U.S. Environmental Research Institute in Michigan designed and compiled the CD-ROM and served as managing editor of the project. Please register with NSIDC User Services to receive the EWG Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas CD-ROM. Refer to The Environmental Working Group Arctic Atlases on CD-ROM Web page for information about other related products.. KEYWORD: ice extent, ocean currents, arctic ocean, nsidc, sea level pressure, sea ice concentration, arctic, ice deformation, ice form, coastal stations, usa, noaa, ice breakers, submarines, noaa, submarine, snow cover, ice types, sea ice, visual observations, ground stations, sea ice motion, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice stations, sea ice age, meteorological stations, satellites, polar, ice thickness distribution, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, upward looking sonar, climate, ice surveys, arctic climatology project, hydrosphere, ships, ocean, ice depth, thickness, climatology, sea ice concentration, oceans, ocean pressure, geographic region, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: National Frameworks Level 0 Standard Geographical Classification, Canada. ABSTRACT: The basic geographic unit in this dataset is the Census Subdivision (CSD). Two hierarchical classifications are provided in this dataset, the Standard Geographical Classification (SGC) and the Statistical Area Classification (SAC). The SGC allows grouping of the CSDs into Census Divisions (CD) and Provinces and Territories. The SAC allows grouping of the CSDs into Census Metropolitan Areas (CMA), Census Agglomerations (CA) and Metropolitan Influence Zones (MIZ). This dataset has been fit to and is intended for use with the National Frameworks Level 0 Version 4.To provide a representation of the Standard Geographical Classification and Statistical Area Classification for use with the National Frameworks Level 0 Revision 4. Prepared by Statistics Canada in partnership with Natural Resources Canada. This project was partially funded by GeoConnections. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: coordinate pair Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: meters Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, county, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, population distribution, administrative boundaries, basemap data, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, census, new brunswick, political divisions, municipal, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Seasonal Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: AMAP Atmospheric Contaminants Database. ABSTRACT: AMAP (Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program) Atmospheric Contaminants Database The AMAP catalogue contains information relating to the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme. AMAP is an international organization established in 1991 to implement components of the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy (AEPS). Now a programme group of the Arctic Council, AMAP's current objective is "providing reliable and sufficient information on the status of, and threats to, the Arctic environment, and providing scientific advice on actions to be taken in order to support Arctic governments in their efforts to take remedial and preventive actions relating to contaminants". Data URL: Information obtained from "http:  www.amap.no ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, contaminants, polar, arctic, earth science, gosic, geographic region, air quality, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Western Arctic Ice Drift Stations, plus ships Maud and Fram. ABSTRACT: Western Arctic ice drifting stations, AIDJEX, ARLIS I, ARLIS II, Ice Station Alpha, Ice Station Charlie, T-3 (called Ice Station Bravo during IGY), ship Maud and Fram provide surface meteorological data for the Arctic Ocean. These data were collected and organized by NCDC and NSIDC leading to the production of a CD-ROM. Several different versions of the data are available, extending from the original key entered data to variable subsets and QC versions developed in uniform format for all stations.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, surface pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, clouds, air temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ships, cloud amount, frequency, drifting observation stations, ocean weather stations, usa, ncar, oceans, humidity, moving ships, geographic region, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes relative humidity measurements from the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, humidity, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, earth science, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Ifremer BIOCEAN database (Deep Sea Benthic Fauna). ABSTRACT: The Biocean database was designed to gather the extremely large volume of data collected from different deep-sea ecosystem studies conducted by Ifremer's department of "Environnement Profond" and aims at facilitating ecosystem studies in the deep sea. It represents an important new resource for deep-sea ecologists and will have wide applications in biogeography, and biodiversity studies.. The relational database is available online and contains data covering 30 years of French deep-sea oceanographic research. This database comes in a six-application package; two of them are used on research vessels to collect operational data, whereas the others are used to link with a core database back on land. The latter are used to: (1) manage the taxonomic nomenclature, (2) monitor the identification of faunal collections and (3) fill in chemical analyses results or measurement data files (4) add or extract data from the database. BIOCEAN was designed to facilitate ecosystem studies in the deep sea. 24,426 records representing 3,156 species are present. Faunal collection with traditional gear (cores and trawls), submersible Nautile and ROV Victor (Remotely Operated Vehicle). Habitats covered include:deep-water benthic ecosystems including hydrothermal vents, cold seeps, deep-coral reefs and sediments. Size reference: 23876 distribution records collected in 69 cruises, 3170 species BIOCEAN database is open to anyone. Taxonomical and biogeographical data are opened through different web portals: -OBIS, Ocean Biogeographique Information System, CoML (Census of Marine Life) web portal. -EurOBIS, the European Ocean Biogeographique Information System. -SCAR-MarBIN, the Marine Biodiversity Information Network, Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research, International Council for Science.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, census of antarctic marine life, biological classification, sponges, arthropods, echinoderms, fauna, arctic, eurobis, obis, remotely operated vehicles, burrows, spoon worms, protists, lampreys, hagfishes, sharks, rays, chimaeras, aquatic ecosystems, segmented worms (annelids), marine habitat, water bears (tardigrades), amoeboids, benthos, macroalgae (seaweeds), coml, peanut worms, ray-finned fishes, biosphere, marine volcanism, tunicates, trawl, arrow worms, animals, vertebrates, ipy, benthic habitat, ocean, amd, fr, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, collection method: trawls, scar marine biodiversity information network, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, deep sea, north atlantic ocean, bryozoans, moss animals, mediterranean sea, caml, submarine, plants, rov, international polar year, amoebas, marine sediments, polar, animalia [animals], census of marine life, southern ocean, hydrothermal vents, eba, pacific ocean, amd, scar-marbin, earth science, lamp shells, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, obis, scar-marbin, coring devices, priapulans, scar-marbin, entoprocts, roundworms, fish, cold seeps, atlantic ocean, collection method: cores, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: ArcticRIMS: A Regional, Integrated Hydrological Monitoring System for the Pan-Arctic Landmass. ABSTRACT: The Arctic Rapid Integrated Monitoring System (ArcticRIMS) uses products from numerical weather prediction models (NCEP NCAR, ERA-40, station records, satellite remote sensing, and other data sets) in conjunction with an atmosphere-land surface water budgeting scheme. The geography and dynamics of water across the pan-Arctic region are important elements of the larger Earth system especially given growing evidence of the vulnerability of the Arctic climate and terrestrial biosphere to global change. The Arctic freshwater cycle figures prominently into any analysis of these dynamic systems. In addition to historical time series, updates are compiled of various gridded fields. These include precipitation, evapotranspiration, soil moisture, soil freeze thaw state, active layer thickness, snow extent and its water equivalent, soil water storage, runoff and simulated discharge. Products are periodically refined as improved data sets and techniques become available.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, precipitation amount, terra, arctic, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, evapotranspiration, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, precipitation, aqua, snow cover, discharge, terrestrial hydrosphere, flow, modis, hydrology, streams, runoff, stream gauges, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, water, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, ocean, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, active layer, special sensor microwave, imager, ground water, earth observing system, terra (am-1), usa, nsf, visual observations, snow, ice, polar, rivers, arctic ocean basin, boreal forest, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, arcss161, ice motion, ssm, i, adcc, national science foundation, earth observing system, aqua, rivers, streams, drainage, opp-9910315, 
TITLE: Benthos and Water Column Process Influences, Northeast Water Polynya Project, 1992. ABSTRACT: These data include physical and biological parameters measured to address the influence of water column processes on the benthos in the Northeast Water Polynya Project on the northeast Greenland continental shelf and surrounding ice-covered areas in July and August of 1992. Data collected include infaunal density, polychaete biomass, sediment carbon concentration, and benthic pigment concentration measured in replicate box cores at 16 stations. Samples were collected from the ship USCGC Polar Sea.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, biological classification, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, uscgc polar sea, biogenic sediments, carbon, sea ice, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, advection, new, ocean chemistry, benthos, pelagic habitat, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, ecosystem functions, inorganic matter, ships, polychaete, benthic habitat, ocean, leads, oceans, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, animals, invertebrates, vegetation, northeast water polynya, biomass dynamics, usa, nsf, water quality, water chemistry, marine sediments, organic carbon, polar, biomass, pigments, newp, nitrogen, earth science, chlorophyll, cryosphere, ceos, box core, coring devices, greenland sea, adcc, arcss115, polynyas, opp9113756, opp-9113756, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Fishbase. ABSTRACT: FishBase is a global information system covering all aspects of fish biology, ecology, population dynamics, life history, and usage by humans. The information is provided in monthly updates at http:  www.fishbase.org . Occurrence data stem mostly from museum collections, less from surveys and the scientific literature; in addition, about 1,000 observation records were reported by the public (fish watchers). Fish were collected with varying gear and deposit of specimens; also trawl surveys and a few individual observations, e.g. by anglers or divers. Habitat coverage includes, marine, brackish, and freshwater. FishBase is a relational database with information to cater to different professionals such as research scientists, fisheries managers, zoologists and many more. FishBase on the web contains practically all fish species known to science. The FishBase 2000 release summarizes the accumulation and structuring of knowledge on fish biology and ecology over the more than 10 years since its inception. FishBase 2000 now covers over 25,000 species of fish known to science, has over 70,000 synonyms and 100,000 common names in over 200 languages. The names are the key to accessing knowledge accumulated over time and mobilising scientific and non-scientific knowledge systems. Over 25,000 pictures illustrate these fish and information about them has been extracted from 20,000 references. The classification of higher taxa follows the version of Eschmeyer's Catalog of Fishes updated in November 2000. The FishBase 2000 CD-ROM contains full information on 25,000 species and comes on 4 CD-ROMS. This following information is for obtaining the CD version. The FishBase book has 344 pages and gives in-depth information about the concepts and data sources of FishBase. It can also be used as a textbook as it explains many concepts in the fields of biodiversity, fish and fisheries. You can order FishBase by sending a US$ 95 cheque from a US-based bank, payable to 'ICLARM', to ICLARM FishBase, MCPO Box 2631, 0718 Makati City, Philippines. Alternatively, you can send a 99 cheque payable to FishBase, to FishBase, IfM, Duesternbrooker Weg 20, 24105 Kiel, Germany. Institutions can order FishBase with a regular invoice. Registered owners of previous copies of FishBase can obtain upgrades for US$ 50 or 55. Prices include shipping by airmail. All classes of fishes are represented, Myxini (hagfishes), Cephalaspidomorphi (lampreys), Holocephali (chimaeras), Elasmobranchii (sharks & rays), Sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fishes), and Actinopterygii (ray-finned fishes), with altogether 29,200 of 30,000 estimated species. The data can be accessed through the following web portals (see Related URL field below): -OBIS, Ocean Biogeographic Information System, CoML (Census of Marine Life) web portal. -EurOBIS, the European Ocean Biogeographique Information System. -SCAR-MarBIN, the Marine Biodiversity Information Network, Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research, International Council for Science.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, census of antarctic marine life, biological classification, fishery biology, arctic, eurobis, taxonomy, habitat coverage: all aquatic habitats, including marine, brackish and freshwater, obis, caml, international polar year, lampreys, hagfishes, global ocean, sharks, rays, chimaeras, visual observations, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, polar, census of marine life, southern ocean, biogeography, eba, coml, pacific ocean, amd, scar-marbin, earth science, ceos, ray-finned fishes, ocean biogeographic information system, obis, scar-marbin, pisces, biosphere, antarctica, scar-marbin, trawl, animals, vertebrates, ipy, ocean, fish, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, scar marine biodiversity information network, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Growing Season Energy and CO2 Fluxes over a Larch Forest Tundra Ecosystem in Siberia. ABSTRACT: This data set includes eddy covariance measurements of carbon and energy fluxes over a larch forest-tundra ecosystem near the latitudinal treeline, collected near Cherskii, Siberia, in summer 2001. A series of basic micrometeorological variables were also measured, including vertical profiles of air temperature and relative humidity, wind speed, net radiation, albedo, incoming and outgoing long wave radiation, wind direction, and precipitation. At each site four soil micro sites were also selected to measure soil temperature at 5 depths, soil heat flux, and soil moisture.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, usa, noaa, eddy covariance, nitrogen flux, precipitation, nondispersive infrared gas analyzer, russia, ndir gas analyzer, net radiation, raise, humidity, soil temperature, albedo, ground-based observations, sensible heat, relative humidity, larch forest tundra, office of polar programs, national science foundation, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, opp0097439, atmospheric chemistry, longwave radiation, water vapor, wind speed and direction, frozen ground, cherskii, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, continent, soil heat budget, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, isotope, usa, nsf, ecosystem-atmosphere carbon flux, russian-american initiative on shelf-land environments in the arctic, soils, europe, surface winds, polar, carbon dioxide, earth science, ceos, land surface, carbon exchange, adcc, eastern europe, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, arcss114, sonic anemometer, siberia, 
TITLE: BEACON VALLEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology beacon.html"] As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Beacon, Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Beacon Valley meteorology station. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, humidity, soil temperature, soils, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, solar radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, frozen ground, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, wind, 
TITLE: Terrain and Vegetation of Imnavait Creek, AK: Classification and Mapping. ABSTRACT: Investigators classified typical and characterisic vegetation communities in an area in northern Alaska using Braun-Blanquet sorted table analysis, and mapped the communities using integrated geobotanical mapping procedures in a Geographic Information System (GIS). The vegetation classification is presented in a final sorted table, and major terrain units, vegetation, and surface forms are described. Also included is a summary of comparable vegetation types from other relevant studies and an areal analysis of the geobotanical maps of the study area. The study area is the Department of Energy R4D research site and is located near Imnavait Creek, AK. Data are available only as a hard-copy paper report.. KEYWORD: land management, opp9318530, geomorphology, alpine, tundra, periglacial processes, plant communities, ecological dynamics, arctic, landscape ecology, usa, noaa, opp-9415554, arctic system science, terrain map, topographic effects, peatlands, alaska, glacial landforms, processes, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, southern foothills physiographic province, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, biosphere, watershed characteristics, opp9415554, seasonally frozen ground, opp-9214959, permafrost, opp-9318530, topographical relief, frozen ground, organic matter, deciduous vegetation, opp9214959, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, arctic ecosystem, canopy characteristics, terrestrial habitat, cameras, usa, nsf, aerial photographs, soils, map, polar, community dynamics, cryosphere, landscape patterns, palustrine wetlands, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, integrated geobotanical mapping, solid earth, nsidc, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, braun-blanquet, evergreen vegetation, vegetation species, snow cover, north america, human dimensions, land cover, vegetation map, r4d, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, plant ecology, fluvial landforms, processes, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, surface water, landforms, community structure, geographic region, arcss, ph meters, vegetation, wetlands, releve, sorted table analysis, united states of america, visual observations, riparian wetlands, snow, ice, vertical location, mosses, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, contours, adcc, tundra, vegetation communities, arcss112, imnavait creek, lichens, dominant species, drainage, plant characteristics, landscape, 
TITLE: Radiation measurement Fram Strait spring 2008: 04-B3 Albedo. ABSTRACT: Radiation measurements made during the spring 2008 cruise to the Fram Strait. Albedo of snow-covered sea ice measured on day two of the fourth floe. Same site as 04-B2, 10 m from 04-B1, 10 cm snow on 1.2 m FYI. Disturbed the snow slightly to see effect on albedo. Fog with sun not visible. Each measurement type (incident, reflected, etc) was made with a different TriOS Ramses spectroradiometer. These are known to have calibration issues at the longest and shortest wavelengths for which data are reported; we recommend using only data from about 350 to 920 nm. No significant quality control has been done to these data.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, downwelling_spectral_radiative_flux_in_sea_water, arctic ocean, shortwave radiation, arctic, water pressure, solar, ice, sea, surface_downwelling_spectral_radiative_flux_in_air, arctic, no, transmission, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, snow, ice, fram strait, albedo, sea_water_pressure, radiative flux, polar, reflectance, observation, earth science, cryosphere, surface_upwelling_spectral_radiative_flux_in_air, photosynthetically active radiation, ipy, ocean, radiation, snow, oceans, ocean pressure, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: NOAA Digital AVHRR Satellite Data; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This digital data set contains selected NOAA 6, 7, 8 and 9 Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) imagery of Alaska; AVHRR is carried on NOAA's polar orbiting satellites. Spatial referencing is 1.1 km at nadir. Data source is National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The data set includes 47 records with estimated growth rate of 100 records per year. Storage required varies by storage medium and selected scene. The file structure is sequential. Data are available on 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi, unlabeled, unblocked, BCD, fixed record length tape. Subsets and customs formats are available. Limited documentation is available. Data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. Uses include fuel mapping, vegetation monitoring, large area mosaic, and monitoring of ice snow dynamics.. KEYWORD: ice extent, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, arctic, aedd, ice, infrared, rivers, stream habitat, alaska coast, noaa, snow cover, north america, alaska, imagery, sea ice, weather, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, infrared wavelengths, meteorology, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, ocean, snow, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, usgs, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, usa, usgs, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landcover, vegetation, infrared imagery, geology, united states of america, land, lakes, satellite, snow, ice, avhrr, elevation, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, climate, noaa-8, noaa-9, noaa-6, noaa-7, rivers, streams, 
TITLE: Western Interior Seaway Drilling Project Data. ABSTRACT: This data set presents the results of a coordinated, multidisciplinary study of Cretaceous carbonate and clastic rocks in cores collected along an E-W transect across the old Cretaceous seaway that extended from the Gulf Coast to the Arctic by a team of academic, industry, and U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) scientists. The overall goal of the study was to construct a subsurface transect of mid-Cretaceous strata that were deposited in the U.S. Western Interior Seaway (WIS), ranging from pelagic, organic-carbon rich, marine hydrocarbon source rocks in Kansas and eastern Colorado to nearshore, coal-bearing units in western Colorado and Utah. This transect of cores has provided the basis for paleoenvironmental interpretation of organic-carbon burial in an epicontinental, foreland basin setting. In part, the objectives of our study were motivated by the research emphases outlined by the Cretaceous Rhythms, Events and Resources (CRER) Project of the Global Sedimentary Geology Program. In particular, the papers in this volume focus on the Graneros Shale, Greenhorn Formation, Carlile Shale, and Niobrara Formation and equivalents in cores from drillholes from western Kansas, eastern Colorado, and eastern Utah. This series of cores provides unweathered samples and continuous, smooth exposures required for geochemical studies, mineralogical investigations, and biostratigraphic studies. Information for the eastern end of the transect was obtained from a hole that was drilled in 1988 and continuously cored (with better than 90% recovery) by Amoco Production Company in western Kansas (Amoco Rebecca K. Bounds #1, Greeley County, Kansas). A Core from the western end of the transect was obtained in 1991 when the USGS drilled and continuously cored (with better than 98% recovery) a hole in the Kaiparowits Basin near the town of Escalante in south central Utah (USGS Escalante #1) A third hole (USGS Portland #1), was drilled by the USGS and continuously cored (with essentially 100% recovery) in Cretaceous strata in the Caon City Basin near Florence, Colorado. A fourth hole was originally planned for the San Juan Basin in southwestern Colorado. The need for this hole was eliminated when Mark Leckie and colleagues continuously trenched a section of the Mancos Shale at the northern border of Mesa Verde National Park between Durango and Cortez, Colorado. Other outcrop sections of Mancon Shale and age-equivalent strata also were sampled and studied by Leckie and colleagues, and their results are reported in the SEPM volume. Other pre-existing cores that were used for parts of the study include Plains Resources Schock Errington #1, Sherman County, Kansas; Coquina Oil Corporation Berthoud State #3 and #4, Larimer County, Colorado; and Princeton University PU79 near Pueblo, Colorado. All cores are presently archived in the USGS Core Research Center (USGS-CRC) in Denver. The data consists of: Amoco Bounds Core USGS Escalante Core USGS Portland Core Coquina Oil Berthoud State Cores Leckie Outcrop Data. KEYWORD: solid earth, microfossils, continent, past global changes, igbp, cretaceous carbonate rocks, arizona, arctic, cretaceous seaway, paleo stop date 84 ma, mesozoic, usa, noaa, late albian, paleoclimate, princeton university pu79 core, paleo start date 98 ma, age determinations, niobrara formation, pages, united states of america, north america, stratigraphic sequence, amoco bounds core, greenhorn formation, carlile shale, land records, clastic rocks, usgs portland core, polar, graneros shale, usgs escalante core, coquina oil berthoud state cores, drillholes, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, kansas, colorado, utah, sedimentary rocks, leckie outcrop data, rocks, minerals, cretaceous, geographic region, cretaceous western interior seaway, santonian, sediments, 
TITLE: LANDSAT MSS Raw Data Product. ABSTRACT: Most of the ESA archive has been acquired and processed at receiving stations in Fucino (Italy), Kiruna (Sweden) and Maspalomas (Gran Canaria, Spain). However, the archive contains also a substantial number of data acquired and processed by receiving stations elsewhere (e.g. the US, Brasil, Canada, etc.). Landsat MSS Raw CCT data contain data at 6 bits with none of the geometric and radiometric corrections applied. The Ancillary Data Block (ACB) gives the exact line length. The video data of different bands are registered at integer pixels to account for detector layout geometry and multiplexer sampling lines. The pixels (2 on the right and 2 on the left side of the image) corresponding to geometrical locations not sampled by all detectors are still present on the video data. Landsat MSS Raw is available in a digital format for Full Scene. Landsat full scene of imagery data correspond to an effective ground coverage area of approximately 185 km wide by 185 km in along-track direction for Landsat 1,2,3 and 185 x 170 for Landsat 4 and 5. A standard full scene is nominally centred on the intersection between a path and row (the actual image centre can vary by up to 20 km). For a floating full scene the placement along the path is chosen by the customer. The centre point of the floating full scene is defined by the path number and the required latitude. A full image is composed of 6920 pixels x 5760 lines and each band requires 40 Mbytes of storage space. To order data please see http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html. KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, habitat conversion, fragmentation, mss, global terrestrial observing system, desertification, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, biosphere, deforestation, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, erosion, landsat-1, gosic, geographic region, regional deforestation, regional desertification, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landsat-3, landsat-2, landsat-5, reforestation, landsat-4, vegetation, equatorial, wetlands, esa, esrin, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, erosion, sedimentation, asia, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, regional reforestation, rivers, streams, multispectral scanner, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Instrument Flight Rules Terminal Area Charts, Canada. ABSTRACT: Terminal Area Charts (TAC) depict aeronautical navigation information for areas around major airports at a larger scale. Vertical coverage is from the surface up to, but not including 18,000' ASL. The charts are printed back-to-back on one sheet. Terminal areas covered: Gander, Halifax, Moncton, Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Windsor, Thunder Bay, Winnipeg, Regina, Saskatoon, Calgary, Edmonton, Vancouver Victoria, Bermuda, Iceland, Azores.Used by pilots for aeronautical navigation around the major urban centres in Canada and the North Atlantic. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome location indicators, Radio navigation aid indicators Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, terrain elevation, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, northern europe, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, bermuda, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, aeronautical charts, greenland, communications, saskatchewan, europe, polar, earth science, ceos, iceland, land surface, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, infrastructure, atlantic ocean, azores, 
TITLE: Canadian Museum of Nature - Fish Collection (OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: This digital database contains an OBIS formatted version of all fish records held at the Canadian Museum of Nature and collected from Canada and the United States as well as from associated marine water masses such as the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Arctic Oceans. It excludes all other records from countries and oceans not listed above. Earliest specimens date from 1863. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis. OBIS Schema fields implemented in this data set are: Res_name, Scientificname, Institutioncode, Catalognumber, Latitude, Longitude, Collectioncode, Datelastmodified, Basisofrecord, Yearcollected, Monthcollected, Daycollected, Genus, Minimumdepth, Maximumdepth, Species, Class, Kingdom, Ordername, Phylum, Family, Scientificnameauthor, Collector, Locality, Country, Ocean, Individualcount, State, County, Collectornumber, Identifiedby, Preparationtype, Subspecies, Yearidentified, Monthidentified, Dayidentified, Typestatus, Sex For OBIS Schema concept details see http:  www.iobis.org tech provider . KEYWORD: eastern pacific ocean, arctic ocean, biological classification, arctic, north atlantic ocean, western pacific ocean, demersal habitat, rivers, stream habitat, obis, aquatic ecosystems, lakes, human dimensions, marine habitat, coastal habitat, north pacific ocean, polar, census of marine life, coml, pacific ocean, pelagic habitat, earth science, environmental impacts, gulfs, ocean biogeographic information system, usa, nasa, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, conservation, benthic habitat, ocean, fish, atlantic ocean, obis, ca, geographic region, estuarine habitat, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m ISIN Grid V003. ABSTRACT: Snow cover products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded daily and eight-day composites, at 500 m resolution. A snow mapping algorithm, based on the Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests, is used to process MODIS data. The daily level 3 product (MOD10A13) contains fields for snow cover and quality assurance (QA). Data also contain local and global attributes. This 500 m product consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of data gridded in an integerized sinusoidal map projection. Snow cover data and supporting attributes are in HDF-EOS format, and are available by ftp. This data set represents Version 3 (V003) of the MODIS processing scheme. The V003 collection contains reprocessed V001 data from 5 March 2001 onward and V003 data from 24 May 2001 onward. V003 data contain processing refinements accommodating algorithm, instrument and calibration stabilization. V003 start dates will continually shift to earlier dates as V001 data are reprocessed to V003. After V003 data are generated for a given day, the V001 data for the same day will still be available for ordering through the EOS Data Gateway (EDG) for at least six months. Eventually, V003 data will completely replace V001 data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, snomap, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, swath, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Dataset of CTD from the 9th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1992 1993. ABSTRACT: From Dec. of 1992 to Feb. of 1993, Thirty-eight CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay. This data set include:Site no.,Latitude,Longitude,Start-Time(LT),Bottom Depth(m),Cast depth. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Oceanographic Station Data (mostly Temperature and Salinity) for the Northwest Atlantic, Northeast Pacific and Arctic. ABSTRACT: This data holding consists of classical oceanographic bottle stations and vertical profiles (STD CTD), from 210,000 stations. These data are organized by cruise, station, and level. Cruise, time period and area retrieval are available. Data can be provided on on magnetic tape or floppy disk. Oceanographic data at significant levels are mainly from Nansen or other bottle casts (24% are CTD STD casts). The principal parameters are temperature and salinity, though O2, PO4, P, SIO2, NO2, NO3, Ph and others can be archived. Values of sound velocity, sigma-T, and geopotential anomaly can be computed. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, acoustic velocity, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, water temperature, ocean acoustics, ocean temperature, station data, buoys, sigma t, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, northern hemisphere, conductivity, geopotential anomaly, idn_node gsfc, sound velocity, north america, oxygen, nansen bottles, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, std, density, nitrogen, pacific ocean, earth science, phosphate, ceos, nansen water sampling bottles, water bottles, ships, canada, cgdi, silicate, water quality, ocean, canada, ph, oceans, salinity, temperature, depth, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes air temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes and thermocouples. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, thermocouples, lter, arctic, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, antarctica, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Arctic Water Vapor Characteristics from Rawinsondes. ABSTRACT: A gridded climatological monthly-mean data base of Arctic water vapor characteristics has been assembled by combining fixed station data with data from soundings taken over the Arctic Ocean from ships and Russian drifting stations. Variables provided include temperature, specific humidity, zonal vapor flux, meridional vapor flux, zonal wind speed, and meridional wind speed, available for 15 levels extending from the surface and then at every 50 mb from 950 mb to 300 mb; sea level pressure and geopotential height, available at 850 mb, 700 mb, 500 mb and 300 mb; and precipitable water, vertically integrated zonal vapor flux and vertically integrated meridional vapor flux, available for five layers, surface to 850 mb, 850 to 700 mb, 700 to 500 mb, 500 to 400 mb and 400 to 300 mb. Coverage of the rawinsonde archives extends from 1945 through 1990 for data from the Russian North Pole series of drifting ice stations over the Arctic Ocean; from 1976 through 1991 for fixed-station data obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research; and from about 1958 through 1991 for fixed-station data obtained from the Historical Arctic Rawinsonde Archive. All variables were obtained through interpolation of the raw sounding data, with the exception of sea level pressure and geopotential height. The file, available via ftp, is structured in monthly data arrays over a subsection of the National Meteorological Center grid (octagonal grid format) centered over the pole, extending to approximately 65 degrees North on each side and about 55 degrees North at the corners.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, water vapor flux, arctic, usa, noaa, north america, humidity, ground stations, rawinsondes, north pacific ocean, wind speed, wind speed, direction, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, ocean, canada, water vapor, geographic region, chukchi sea, drifting stations, continent, altitude, sea level pressure, balloons, north atlantic ocean, labrador sea, air temperature, eosdis, geopotential height, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, baffin bay, vapor flux, barents sea, surface winds, bering sea, polar, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, east siberian sea, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, atmospheric pressure, laptev sea, esip, atlantic ocean, kara sea, 
TITLE: Geoscience Compilation of Northern Baffin Island and Northern Melville Peninsula, Canada. ABSTRACT: The North Baffin Island and Melville Peninsula project was co-sponsored by the Geological Survey of Canada, Qikiqtaaluk Corporation, Indian and Northern Affairs Canada and the Government of the Northwest Territories (Nunavut as of April 1, 1999). The purpose of this project is to make information about the rocks and soils of the area easier to obtain, to understand, and to use, by providing geoscience information to northern communities and the general public. Potential applications include land-use planning and management, education and mineral exploration. The contents of the two CD-ROM set represent the culmination of a one-year compilation for the North Baffin and Northern Melville Peninsula regions in the new Nunavut territory. This geoscience knowledge base is a seamless, multi-thematic integrated data set. Geoscience data layers include 1:500,000-scale bedrock geology, surficial geology, mineral occurrences and metallogenic domains, geophysical and geochronological data and Precambrian fossil localities. Underlying this information is a seamless topographic base with lakes, drainage, coastlines and elevation data. Hard copy maps of bedrock geology (GSC Open File 3633, 1:500,000), surficial geology (GSC Open File 3634, 1:500,000) and metallogenic domains with mineral occurrences (GSC Open File 3635, 1:1,000,000) have been derived from this knowledge base.To stimulate mineral exploration, effective land-use planning and management, identify carving stone resources, and northern community capacity building. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point, vector, raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, arctic, metals, faults, north baffin island, northern hemisphere, north america, surficial, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, geochemistry, topography, land use, land cover, geodetics, gravity, metamorphic rocks, surface water, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, canada, ocean, coal, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, geoscience compilation, continent, visible imagery, folds, gcmd, natural resources, nunavut, northwest territories, age determinations, stratigraphic sequence, lakes, tectonics, snow, ice, polar, precambrian fossils, earth science, ceos, land surface, igneous rocks, land resources, contours, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, non-metallic minerals, environment, infrastructure, gravity, rivers, streams, 
TITLE: National Permafrost Database in Canada. ABSTRACT: The National Permafrost Database contains data on permafrost thermal regime, permafrost thickness and active layer characteristics in Canada. The data has been measured and or compiled by the GSC over the last 30 years, as both published and unpublished databases. Site attributes include: type of observation (shallow or deep), status of measurement program (active monitoring or inactive), active layer depth, permafrost temperature data, permafrost thickness, other site or material characteristics, responsible agency and published references.Canadian permafrost baseline data and monitoring activities contribute to GCOS (Global Climate Observation System) climate change programs of the World Meteorological Organization. The data is relevant to many clients and stakeholders involved in northern exploration. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, enviromental geology, gcmd, engineering geology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, hydrogeology, northwest territories, marine, marine geology, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surficial, saskatchewan, soils, yukon territory, polar, hydrology, surficial geology, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, environment, canada, cgdi, passive measurments, permafrost, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, active measurments, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Rock Glaciers, Disko Island, Greenland. ABSTRACT: Disko Island (8600 km2) is situated west of central mainland Greenland. The island is part of the Tertiary volcanic province of West Greenland and is mainly made up by lavas. The landscape is a plateau basalt landscape with cirque carved lava plateaus and U-shaped valleys and fjords. Rock glaciers are frequent in Disko Island (Humlum, 1982). In southern Disko Island, about 60 km SSE of the two study sites, meteorological observations have been carried out since 1923 in the village of Godhavn. The present (1961-1990) mean annual air temperature is -3.9 C, the coldest month is March (-15.1 C), and July is the warmest month (7.1 C). The mean annual precipitation at Godhavn is about 400 mm water equivalent. Most of the precipitation (75 %) usually falls during the period June to December, associated with advection of moist, maritime air masses from the south and southwest along the Davis Strait. The remaining part of the year is comparatively dry, as it is dominated by cold and dry katabatic air masses flowing off the Greenland Ice Sheet to the east. Approximately 60-70 % of the mean annual precipitation is snow and in Godhavn a persistent snow cover is registered from late September to late May. No systematic mapping of permafrost or permafrost related terrain features have been carried out in this part of West Greenland. Weidick (1968), however, places Disko Island within the zone of continuous permafrost. This is supported by the occurrence of open system pingos (Christiansen, 1995) and numerous rock glaciers (Humlum, 1982, 1984, 1988a, 1988b, 1996; Humlum et al., 1995; Rasch et al. 1996), which are geomorphic indications of the presence of widespread permafrost in Disko Island. Adopting a standard continental geothermal gradient of about 0.033 C m-1, the mean annual air temperature of -7.5 C (1991-96) indicates a potential permafrost thickness of about 175-225 m. This estimate is presumably somewhat conservative, as the Little Ice Age annual air temperature presumably was about 2C below modern values (Humlum, 1996), which would provide conditions for a somewhat thicker permafrost layer than is suggested by modern meteorological values. The high frequency of rock glaciers on Disko Island is presumably derived from high rock weathering rates (Humlum, 1992). These data are presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, continent, polar, mapping, meteorology, ggd, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, southwestern disko island, central west greenland, land surface, rock glaciers, usa, noaa, greenland, permafrost, north america, frozen ground, permafrost properties, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 1998. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and finally saved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, digisondes, solar energetic particle properties, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) Measurements Collected by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network at NOAA CMDL HATS. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has collected hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) from flask samples and in situ instruments located at monitoring stations. The Halocarbons and other Trace Species Group (HATS) of NOAA CMDL collected flask pair measurements for HCFC-22 (Chlorodifluoromethane), HCFC-141b (1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane), and HCFC-142b(1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane). NOAA CMDL NOAH stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO). Cooperative stations are at Niwot Ridge, Colorado (NWT); Alert, Canada (ALT); and Cape Grim, Australia (CGO). Principal investigators for the HCFC flask measurements are: S. Montzaka, J. Elkins, and J. Butler (NOAA CMDL) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats hcfcs" For more information on the NOAA CMDL HATS program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " A subset of this data is available from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) as part of the Trends collection. "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov". KEYWORD: atmosphere, hcfc-141, arctic ocean, hcfc-142, greenhouse effect, arctic, chlorodifluoromethane, halocarbons and halogens, usa, noaa, noaa, north america, alaska, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, ground stations, noah, dichloro-1-fluoroethane, trace gases, trace species, australia, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, cape grim, global warming, gas chromatographs, canada, ocean, mauna loa, amd, geographic region, flask, continent, rits, american samoa, hcfc, cape matatula, flasks, greenhouse gas, united states of america, alert, chloro-1,1-difluoroethane, cmdl, polar, ftp, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, australia, new zealand, earth science, ceos, colorado, samoa, hcfc-22, niwot ridge, point barrow, central pacific ocean, south pole, 
TITLE: Surface Meteorological Data at Antarctic Great Wall Station from 1985-1998. ABSTRACT: These surface meteorological observations have been made continuously since January, 1985 at Greatwall Station operated by CHINARE. Its international index of weather report is 89058. Observation techniques and methods were conducted according to the World Meteorology Organization (WMO) and Chinese Meteorological Administration.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, freezing rain, sunshine, shortwave radiation, greatwall station, arctic, air temperature, clouds, ozone, precipitation, amd, cn, humidity, sleet, surface winds, uvb, polar, rain, surface pressure, atmospheric phenomena, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, wind speed, direction, maximum, minimum temperature, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, cloud height, ultraviolet radiation, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, cloud amount, frequency, water vapor, snow, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, fog, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Designated Airspace Handbook, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Designated Airspace Handbook (DAH) provides a legal description of Canadian airspace. The data is available in English and French in digital format only on the Internet. Table of Contents (Parts): 1. Abbreviations and Acronyms 2. Glossary of Aeronautical Terms and Designations of Miscellaneous Airspace 3. Aerodrome Reference Point, Navigation Aid and Intersection Fix Coordinates Used in Designated Airspace 4. Designations of Class A,B,C,D,E Airspace and Transponder Airspace by Flight Information Region and Air Route Traffic Control Centre 5. Designations of Low Level Airways and Fixed Area Navigation Routes 6. Designations of Class F Airspace Maps: 1. Canadian Domestic Airspace 2. Arctic, Northern and Southern Control Areas 3. Altimeter Setting Regions, Standard Pressure Regions and Sparsely Settled Areas 4. Designated Mountainous Regions 5. Flight Information Regions (FIR) 6. Air Defence Identification Zones (ADIZ) 7. Canadian Minimum Navigation Performance Specifications(CMNPS) Airspace 8. Canadian Minimum Navigation Performance Specifications(CMNPS) Airspace Required Navigation Performance Capability (RNPC) Transition Area 9. Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) Transition Area 10. Required Navigation Performance Capability (RNPC)Airspace 11. Transponder AirspaceThe Designated Airspace Handbook provides a legal description of Canadian airspace. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, navigation aids, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, atmospheric pressure, transportation, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, infrastructure, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: The legacy model vs the subsidy model to explain soil organic matter in the McMurdo Dry Valleys. ABSTRACT: The Dry Valleys of Victoria Land, Antarctica, contain naturally simple ecosystems operating under extreme climatic conditions. Nutrients are limited and are thought to come from external sources from more productive parts of the landscape or from other ecosystems entirely, such as the lakes occurring in the valleys. A legacy model suggests the origin of present day soil organic matter to be material laid down in ancient lake beds rather than aeolian dispersal from modern aquatic environments, as previously thought. This does not appear to hold true for smaller dry valleys and instead a subsidy model was investigated by testing several hypotheses with a combination of: a survey of the physical and biological characteristics of the eight key landscape elements identified in the valley, experimentally measuring the benefit of wind-blown subsidies to terrestrial microbial populations and the nature of the beneficial component of the subsidies. In each of the landscapes, the soil respiration, terrestrial photosynthesis (moss colonies and cyanobacterial mats on the soil), terrestrial nitrogen fixation, approximate area covered by communities undertaking carbon and nitrogen fixation and the transfer of organic material between aquatic and terrestrial environments was quantified. The results of these measurements will be a carbon and nitrogen budget for terrestrial communities in the valley system. The parameters and landscape scale resource budgets were tested by comparing the conditions in the Garwood Valley with those in the western Wright Valley, which is characterised by an entirely internal drainage system (the Onyx River flowing into Lake Vanda), a much less productive lake that occupies a much smaller areal proportion of the total valley floor, and a climate more influenced by the extremes of arid katabatic winds. Studies were in the 04 05 and 05 06 seasons in the Garwood Valley (Lake Colleen and Buddha Lake) and the Wright Valley (Lake Vanda).. KEYWORD: continent, soil moisture, water content, respiration rate, wright valley, ecological dynamics, soil respiration, decomposition, field surveys, biogeochemical cycles, agriculture, biomass dynamics, photosynthesis, carbon, denitrification rate, soil temperature, soils, biodiversity functions, soil gas, air, polar, nitrogen, soil sampler, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, garwood valley, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, soil fertility, biosphere, autoanalyzer, antarctica, field investigation, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, primary production, community structure, chn analyzers, laboratory, amd, nz, organic matter, amd, geographic region, microflora, 
TITLE: Temperature, Pressure and Potential Vorticity Fields at Theta Surfaces from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasting. ABSTRACT: The pressure, temperature and potential vorticity (PV) fields are used for European stratospheric ozone research projects, such as EASOE and SESAME as well as other EU funded projects. The PV, pressure and temp. on the different isentropic levels are calculated from the ECMWF T213 initialized analysis extracted at a 1.125 degree lat-lon grid. The trajectories are 10 day backward analyses ending at a large number of stations and grid points in Europe, Asia and the Arctic. The trajectory data contain information on the geographical position, temperature and PV along the trajectory. The time step is 2 hours. For both the fields and trajectories there are data for 12 UT every day from early November through April starting Nov. 1991. The PV and temperature on the different isentropic levels are calculated from the ECMWF T213 initialized analysis extracted as a 1.25 degree lat-lon grid. PV is calculated using a centered difference scheme except between the two upper levels (10 and 30hPa) of the ECMWF model. There are substantial errors on PV. This is primarily due to the coarse vertical interpolations and unreal small-scale structures in The only difference is that the trajectory calculation is done in a 1.5 degree distance grid, so the difference between them is small. The data are, however, only available in a 2.5 degree distance grid at NILU, but PV is calculated for every station using the finer grid and are available in the directory:  nadir data ecmwf pvatstat YYYY MM The isentropic data are organised into year(YYYY) and month(MM) in the subdirectories:  nadir data ecmwf isentrop YYYY MM The data are stored in files with names: atYYMMDD.HHH where YYMMDD gives the date of the analyses and HHH is the forecast hour. HHH equals 000 for the 12 UT analysis. HHH equals 12, 36 and 60 hoursfor the forecast based on on the 0UT analyses, while HHH equals 24, 48, 72, 96, 120 and 192 for the forecast based on the 12 UT analyses. Thus, at951128.012 is the 12 hour forecast from 0 UT analysis on November 28, 1995, which is valid at 12 UT on November 28, 1995. The forecast in at951127.24 is also valid at this time, but since it is a longer forecast, it should not be used. However, the forecasts based on the 0 UT analyses, will arrive later at NILU (at about 6 UT). Note, that on the first day of a month you have to go to the directory of the previous month, to get the forecast based on the 12 UT analysis.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, air parcel trajectories, arctic, easoe, esa, esrin, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, european arctic and stratospheric ozone experiment, meteorological analyses, potential vorticity, europe, stratosphere, vertical location, polar, models, ecmwf, vorticity, second european stratospheric arctic and mid-latitute experiment, data from ecmwf model, asia, earth science, ceos, modelling, atmospheric pressure, idn node esrin, isentropic surfaces, atmospheric winds, meteorological forecasts, sesame, geographic region, 
TITLE: Baseline concentrations of elements in the Antarctic macrolichen Umbilicaria decussata. ABSTRACT: Total concentrations of major and trace elements were determined in samples of the epilithic lichen Umbilicaria decussata from 24 ice-free areas in coastal Victoria Land (Antarctica) during 1991 - 2001. Overall average concentrations of trace elements except Cd were the lowest ever reported for lichens of the genus Umbilicaria. Specifically, the mean level of Pb in lichen from granitic rock (0.46 + - 0.18 mg g-1 dry wt) was more than four times lower than the lowest record in Arctic lichens. No impact of local human activities was detected, but the elemental composition of U. decussata was affected by entrapment of soil of rock dust particles and probably by uptake of soluble elements from substrate. Relationship between elements and their distributions patterns in the study area indicated that the marine environment is the main source of major ions and perhaps of Cd in lichens. Accumulation of P was detected in samples from coastal sites frequented by seabirds. Although the present results can be taken as baseline levels of major and trace elements in Antarctic U. decussata from substrates with very different geochemical features, further research is necessary to evaluate the relative element contribution from each substrate with respect to those from snow, marine aerosol, salt encrustation and guano.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, ecological dynamics, (sector 1) heavy metals, arctic, biogeochemical cycles, (sector 1) lichens, (sector 1) terra victoria, amd, it, victoria land, soils, polar, ecotoxicology, (sector 1) terra nova bay, soil sampler, earth science, ceos, micronutrients, trace elements, land surface, terra nova bay, biosphere, antarctica, lichen u. decussata and surface soil from victoria land (antarctica), field investigation, species bioaccumulation, ecosystem functions, fungi, spectrometers, lichens, amd, geographic region, (sector 1) major and trace elements, 
TITLE: Database of animal specimens from polar regions. ABSTRACT: The Division of Biological Collection at the National Institute of Polar Research (NIPR) has been taking care of biological specimens collected by the Japanese Antarctic Research Expeditions (JAREs) and through other research activities in Arctic and Antarctic regions. The collection has been loaned for scientific researches and exhibitions at museums etc. for public education. Moss specimens in the collection were registered at a herbaria, coded as "NIPR" and animal specimens were catalogued in a publication (National Institute of Polar Research, 1987) for scientific or educational users. To make better use of the animal specimens, about 500 items at present, we set up a database which can be searched for appropriate specimens through images of each items for any particular purposes, scientific or educational. We hope this database will help increase understanding of the animals living in polar regions. Even though the collection includes unidentified specimens or those with incomplete data, we would like to improve the collection with cooperation of related research fellows.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, amd, jp, antarctica, japanese antarctic research expedition, lutzow-holm bay region, ipy, ocean, international polar year, amd, jare, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Gas and Aerosol Sampling Program. ABSTRACT: This directory entry was created from information gathered in a survey conducted as part of NOAA's Data System Modernization program. The following parameters were identified for this data set in the survey: a c flight data, meteorological variables, ozone concentration, aerosol concentration, radiation variables.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, wp-3d orion, arctic, usa, noaa, troposphere, ozone, humidity, meteorlogical data, air quality, agasp, aircraft data, polar, vertical location, visibility, trace gases, trace species, o3, lockheed wp-3d orion, arctic gas and aerosol sampling program, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, solar radiation, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, geographic region, idn_node gsfc, noaa, oar, cmdl, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Circulation in the Freshwater Switchyard of the Arctic Ocean: Helicopter CTD Profile Data 2003-2005. ABSTRACT: The Freshwater Switchyard of the Arctic Ocean (FSAO) project includes a helicopter based at Alert on northern Ellesmere Island to carry out oceanographic surveys northward across the shelf break in late spring. The 'freshwater switchyard' is a region to the north of the eastern Canadian Archipelago and Greenland that is hypothesized as a bifurcation point for freshwater transfer between the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans. Measurements were made in April and or May of 2003, 2004, and 2005 using a Seabird SBE 19plus Seacat internally recording CTD instrument with an SBE 43 dissolved oxygen sensor. Data include depth, pressure, temperature in situ, potential temperature, conductivity, salinity, and density. 2003 and 2004 data also include dissolved oxygen; in 2005 the oxygen sensor failed. Each cast reaches about 500 meters unless the ocean depth at that position is less. Further information and photography from the 2005 survey are posted at the project Web site, The Freshwater Switchyard of the Arctic Ocean (http:  psc.apl.washington.edu switchyard index.html). Data are in space-delimited ASCII format, and are available via FTP. The FSAO project is a program to study freshwater circulation (sea ice and upper ocean) in the 'freshwater switchyard' between Alert (Ellesmere Island) and the North Pole, through a series of annual springtime hydrographic surveys. These surveys are intended to measure the eastward-flowing boundary current and also determine water property changes that occur in the transition from the deep Arctic Ocean basin to the shallow continental shelf. These data represent the first three years of surveys in 2003-2005; additional surveys are planned through 2007.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, nsidc, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, national snow and ice data center, ocean temperature, opp 0230427, usa, noaa, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, conductivity, helicopter, arcss129, terrestrial hydrosphere, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, polar, density, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, potential temperature, surface water, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss, npeo, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Polar Eurasia Teleconnection Patterns from NOAA Climate Prediction Center. ABSTRACT: [Source: NOAA Climate Prediction Center, http:  www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov  ] The Polar  Eurasian pattern appears only in the winter, and is the most prominent mode of low-frequency variability during December and February. The pattern consists of one main anomaly center over the polar region, and separate centers of opposite sign to the polar anomaly over Europe and northeastern China. Thus, the pattern reflects major changes in the strength of the circumpolar circulation, and reveals the accompanying systematic changes which occur in the midlatitude circulation over large portions of Europe and Asia. The polar Eurasian pattern exhibits strong intradecadal and interdecadal variability, with several consecutive winters of a positive phase of the pattern often followed by several winters having a negative phase of the pattern. For example, the winters from 1964 65 through 1969 70 were dominated by a negative phase of the pattern, followed by a five-year period from 1971 72 through 1975 76 dominated by a positive phase of the pattern. A negative phase then returned for much of the decade between 1976 77 and 1985 86, followed by a prolonged positive phase of the pattern from 1988 89 through 1992 93. These prolonged positive phases of the pattern reflected below-normal heights throughout the polar region and an enhanced circumpolar vortex, in combination with above-normal heights over much of Europe and eastern Asia. In contrast, the prolonged negative phases of the pattern reflected above-normal heights throughout the polar region and a weaker than normal polar vortex, in combination with below-normal heights over much of Europe and eastern Asia.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, altitude, polar, eurasia pattern, models, climate index, arctic, earth science, ceos, usa, noaa, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, forecast indices, geopotential height, northern hemisphere, ocean, climate indices, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atmospheric circulation, eurasia, oscillations, teleconnections, climate change, 
TITLE: Bristol Bay Region, Alaska, Vegetation Cover Classification, USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This digital data set includes vegetation cover classification derived from Landsat MSS data and can be keyed on a 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cell size. The data source is Landsat MSS data (73 records), storage required varies by storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Data are available on: 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi, unlabeled, unblocked, fixed record length tape and 8' floppy disk. Subsets and custom formats are available; documentation is also available. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. General area covered: Bristol Bay region in Alaska.. KEYWORD: land management, continent, terrain elevation, arctic, aedd, vegetation, geology, mss, field geology, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, coastal habitat, land cover, elevation, polar, topography, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, bristol bay, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, landforms, alaska directory, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Glacial Geology Map of the Toolik Lake and Upper Kuparuk River Region, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of a digital glacial geology map of the Toolik and upper Kuparuk River region, Alaska, USA. The map covers a 740 km**2 area on Alaska's North Slope, in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range. The map contains polygon and line features, annotation, and legends and is distributed as an ArcInfo GIS interchange (.e00) file or shapefiles. The data set describes substrate only and does not include topographic, hydrographic, or cultural features.. KEYWORD: solid earth, nsidc, geomorphology, till, periglacial processes, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, alluvium, sagavanirktok, glacial landforms, processes, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, fluvial landforms, processes, office of polar programs, national science foundation, toolik lake, lacustrine deposits, glaciers, ice sheets, glaciation, frozen ground, erosion, rocks, minerals, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, sediments, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, glaciers, continent, fan deposits, national snow and ice data center, paleoclimate, age determinations, cameras, usa, nsf, united states of america, itkillik, opp9908829, aerial photographs, glacier, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, landscape patterns, outwash, landscape, kuparuk river, 
TITLE: National Scale Frameworks Populated Places, Canada. ABSTRACT: Atlas of Canada National Frameworks data are standardized national coverages of commonly used geospatial data sets at the 1:1 000 000 scale. A variety of framework layers (e.g. hydrology, roads, railways, populated places) have been integrated so that their relative positions are correct. Hydrology (which includes coastline) is the base layer to which all others are fitted. In addition, the Atlas of Canada National Frameworks collection forms a base to which an increasing number of national scale thematic frameworks from other Federal Government agencies are integrated (e.g. ecological regions, census subdivisions). National Scale Frameworks Populated Places, Canada is a selection of named populated places suitable for use at a scale of 1:1 000 000. The points have been fitted to other National Scale Frameworks layers. Therefore, points represent the approximate locations of places relative to these other layers. A subset of data from the Canadian Geographical Names Data Base (CGNDB) were used. The CGNDB is maintained by the Names Section of the Centre for Topographic Information (Government of Canada, Natural Resources Canada). The selection of features was based on population size, historical significance and noteworthiness. Cartographic considerations were also taken into account.The Atlas of Canada National Scale Frameworks are a set of integrated base map layers which form part of a larger National Scale Frameworks data collection. These data have been compiled at a scale of 1:1 000 000 with the primary goal being to indicate correct relative positioning with other framework layers rather than absolute positional accuracy. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, city, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, urban settlement, nunavut, northwest territories, human settlement, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, human dimensions, rural settlement, village, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, population distribution, quebec, alberta, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: CTD dataset collected by the 11th CHINARE in 1994 1995. ABSTRACT: CTD data collected by 11th CHINARE. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid (MOD10A1) contains snow cover, snow albedo, fractional snow cover, and Quality Assessment (QA) data in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format along with corresponding metadata. MOD10A1 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, albedo, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Alaskan Geologic Photography Collection from USGS. ABSTRACT: Collection of Alaskan photography taken throughout the state by explorers and field geologists. Subjects include geology and geologic phenomenon, earthquake damage, landscapes and people. Collection contains both photographs and slides. Library indexed by subject, locality, and year. Written requests accepted. Give as much information as possible to ensure successful search. Lists of many of the photographs submitted by Alaskan geologists are held in the technical data unit of the USGS branch of Alaskan geology in Anchorage, Alaska.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, visible imagery, arctic, earth science, ceos, aedd, visible wavelengths, united states of america, north america, alaska, idn_node gsfc, esdd, spectral, engineering, geographic region, usgs, photography, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 15th Voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research in 1998-1999. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ship reception system at Xuelong of the 16th Voyage of the Chinese Antarctic Research in 1998-1999.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, visible wavelengths, ocean, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Historical Isotopic Temperature Record from the Vostok Ice Core. ABSTRACT: Glacial-interglacial temperature records were derived from the 2083-m ice core from Vostok, Antarctica, obtained during a series of drillings in th early 1970s and 1980. Temperature records were derived from isotopes of oxygen-18 and deuterium in snowfall. Drilling continued at Vostok and was completed in January 1998, reaching a depth of 3623 m, the deepest ice core ever recovered (Petit et al. 1997, 1999). The resulting core allows the ice core record of climate properties at Vostok to be extended to about 420 kyr BP. The 420-kyr Vostok temperature record in this dataset was reconstructed from the continuous deuterium profile measured along the core. The new measurements were taken along ice in increments between 0.5 and 2 m in length to a depth of 2080 m and then every 1 m for the remainder of the upper 3310-m of the ice core. Isotopic analysis was again performed by the Geochemistry team at LSCE at Saclay. The tabulated data show the annual temperature variation relative to the mean annual surface temperature for Vostok (-55.5 C). The Vostok temperature data is available via ftp from: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov ftp trends temp vostok vostok.1999.temp.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, snowfall, cenozoic, greenhouse effect, arctic, air temperature, paleoclimate, isotopes, quaternary, vostok, ions, ground stations, snow, ice, climate change, polar, amd, us, paleo stop date 0 ybp, temperature anomalies, oxygen-18, surface air temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, pleistocene, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, antarctica, global warming, paleo start date 420,000 ybp, amd, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: Labitzke Berlin Stratospheric Data: Zonal Mean Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Northern Hemisphere monthly zonal mean geopotential heights and temperature. Gridded data are available from 10N to 90N at 10x10 degrees at 100 hPa, 50 hPa, 30 hPa, and 10 hPa. Muench and Borden (1962) had analyzed monthly mean stratospheric charts from 1955-1959. From these data, B. Naujokat extrapolated the 30-hPa North Pole temperatures for the period July 1955 till June 1957 which enlarges our data set for the North Pole. The other temperature data were extrapolated from our daily maps until 1965 when the temperature analyses were published together with the maps and digitized accordingly, like the height maps. As this is a set of temperature data which is not included in the Berlin Series on the CD, but is used in several publications, the full data are given: for the 30-hPa level the North Pole Temperatures are available from 1955 - 2001: "http:  dss.ucar.edu cdroms karin_labitzke_strat_grids html section1.html" Information on zonal mean data formats are available from: "http:  dss.ucar.edu cdroms karin_labitzke_strat_grids html section8.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, altitude, temperature anomalies, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, zonal means, air temperature, usa, nasa, stratospheric temperatures, geopotential height, northern hemisphere, climate indices, ground stations, geographic region, stratosphere, climate change, 
TITLE: Gridded Global LGM SST and Salinity Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: The recent efforts of the paleoceanographic community have resulted in a unique set of reconstructed sea-surface temperature for the Atlantic Ocean during the Last Glacial Maximum, plus estimates for the extents of glacial sea ice (Sarnthein et al. 2003). Unlike prior attempts, the contributing research groups based their data on the definition of a common LGM chronozone and used the same modern reference data for calibrating the different transfer techniques. Furthermore, the number of processed sediment cores has been vastly increased. Thus the new data is a significant advance not only with respect to quality, but also to quantity. We integrated these new data and provide monthly data sets of global sea-surface temperature and ice cover, objectively interpolated by variogram analysis and kriging to a regular 1x1 degree grid, suitable for forcing or validating numerical ocean and atmosphere models. These gridded fields are available in two flavours: The 'line' version is based on the LGM SST isolines provided by Plaumann et al. (2003), whereas the 'core' version employed the SST estimates at the individual core sites. In addition, we reconstructed sea surface salinity from the new temperature data and the available oxygen isotope measurements with three different salinity anomalies in the Weddell Sea (0, 0.55, and 1.0 salinity units).. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, past global changes, igbp, sea surface temperature reconstructions, cenozoic, arctic, north atlantic ocean, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, lgm, pages, halocline, sst reconstructions, ocean, lake records, isotopes, stratigraphic sequence, quaternary, thermohaline circulation, global ocean, weddell sea, sea surface temperature, climate change, polar, salinity, last glacial maximum, paleoclimate reconstructions, southern ocean, anamalies, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, sss reconstructions, ocean, sea surface salinity reconstructions, paleo start date 22 ka, oceans, amd, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, paleo stop date 19 ka, indian ocean, oxygen isotopes, sediments, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Canadian Diatom Database. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Diatom Database includes two components, the first one contains approximately 5,000 diatom samples with their description, precise geographic location and associated information, and the second one consists of 1,500 entries giving information on the environmental and ecological tolerance of individual diatom species. Diatoms are powerful indicators of environmental conditions since they respond quickly to environmental changes. They are widely utilized in stratigraphic investigations.The data provides accurate, abundant and readily available information essential for the proper interpretation of any modern or fossil diatom assemblage. This key source of climate indicators provides an invaluable, long term, time series to determining climate variations in the Canadian Arctic.. KEYWORD: mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, northern hemisphere, peatlands, north america, ontario, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, climate change, nova scotia, fossil, sedimentation, sediment, surface water, lake sediments, canada, cgdi, canada, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, microfossils, stream sediment, continent, newfoundland and labrador, nunavut, diatom, paleoclimate, northwest territories, particulate matter, paleontology, saskatchewan, lakes, yukon territory, cave deposits, polar, erosion, sedimentation, paleosols, earth science, ceos, land surface, climate, quebec, alberta, environment, prince edward island, lake sediment, rivers, streams, ice core records, 
TITLE: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE) AMPR Brightness Temperature Data (FIRE_ACE_AMPR). ABSTRACT: This data consists of data provided by the Advanced Microwave Precipitation Radiometer (AMPR) flown onboard the ER2 aircraft during the FIRE ACE field campaign.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, ampr, arctic, earth science, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, eosdis, nasa er-2, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, brightness temperature, earth science information partners program, advanced microwave precipitation radiometer, earth observing system data information system, ocean, first isccp regional experiment, nasa earth resources-2, spectral, engineering, fire, esip, geographic region, microwave, fire, ace, 
TITLE: Electronator (DEP) measurements on Allan Hills Main blue ice area. ABSTRACT: New instrument designed to measure the surface conductance of ice with electrodes about 80 cm apart moving at 3 m s across the ice with about 1kV p.d. About 5 km of data combined with geodetic GPS measurements. Still being processed.. KEYWORD: continent, cenozoic, arctic, allan hills, ablation zones, accumulation zones, electronator, dep, amd, fi, paleo start date 1ma, quaternary, electronators, snow, ice chemistry, paleo stop date present, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, blue ice, polar, horizonatal ice core, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, glaciers, ice sheets, dielectric profiling, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Physical and chemical evolution of atmospheric components in Antarctic troposphere. ABSTRACT: Measurements of trace components relevant to atmospheric chemistry, in gas phase such as nitric acid, nitrous acid, hydrochloric acid, bromidic acid, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, peroxyacetyl nitrate and other organic nitrates (NOy) and particulate matter such as nitrate, nitrite, chloride, bromide, sulphate, calcium, sodium, ammonium, potassium, magnesium, were carried out at BTN (Icaro Camp) in austral summers from 1990 to 2004. Total Gaseous Mercury (TGM) and Total Particulate Matter (TPM) levels were also measured during November-December 1999 and 2000. The determinations of trace components were carried out by sampling air through a diffusion annular denuder filter patch sampling system, followed by extraction and analysis by ion chromatography. The annular denuder technique allows the simultaneous and selective collection of chemical species of interest with a precision and accuracy never achieved with other commercial instruments. In addition, this sampling technique follows a multi-step Quality Control and Assurance (QC QA) procedure, which ranges from the denuder pre-treatment to the final analysis of the data. Aerosol samples were also collected using a low-pressure impactor which divides particles into 12 size fraction over the aerodynamic particle diameter range 0.035-15.9 micrometers. After sampling, the impaction surfaces were analysed using the same procedures used for the filters and the denuders and the mass size distribution were determined. The sampling times were 12, 24 and 48h. TGM samples were taken every 24h using the manual gold trap method based on the gold-trap amalgamation technique and analysed using the CVAFS technique. TPM concentrations were obtained collecting airborne particles on micro-quartz fibre filters mounted in a quartz tube for 48h and analysed by CVAFS technique. Finally, high sensitivity instruments for nitrous acid (HONO) was tested in November and December 2003. The CNR-Institute for Atmospheric Pollution has been developed an automatic sampling system to measure HONO with two coil samplers, based on derivatization by 2,4-Dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and on high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) analysis with UV detection at 309 nm. This instrument allowed the HONO measurements with a sample integration time of 3 min, with a sampling frequency of 10 min and with a detection limit of 1 pptv, proper in the polar areas. Atmospheric measurements of HONO were carried out in parallel with the micrometeorological data in order to define the local behaviours of physical parameters and to determine the surface fluxes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic, ammonia, halocarbons and halogens, (pacs) polar regions, (pacs) atmosphere, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, (pacs) processes caused by visible and uv light, amd, it, (pacs) atmospheric chemistry, sulfur compounds, polar, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen compounds, earth science, ceos, antarctica, (pacs) chromatography, (pacs) instruments for environmental pollution measurements, atmospheric chemistry, nitrogen oxides, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: 2006 Zhongshan station earth tide data. ABSTRACT: This is Laseaman hill's earth tide data from March to November 2006 by using Lacoste ET gravimeter.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, fixed observation stations, arctic, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, antarctica, zhongshan station, gravity, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, lrgm, lacoste-romberg gravity meter, 
TITLE: Climatic Atlas of the Outer Continental Shelf Waters and Coastal Regions of Alaska. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Climatic Atlas of the Outer Continental Shelf Waters and Coastal Regions of Alaska is a climatology atlas, available from the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). These atlases update the knowledge of the climatological conditions for the Alaskan marine and near coastal zone. They contain means, extremes, and percent frequency of occurrence of threshold values for these elements: wind, visibility, present weather, sea level pressure, air and sea surface temperature, clouds, waves, and such supplemental information as storm surges, tides, sea ice, cyclone tracks, surface currents, bathymetry, detailed weather, and aviation weather. Data are presented primarily at a monthly resolution in the form of graphs and isopleth analysis. Data is comprised of 4.5 million surface marine observations and 8.5 million observations from 66 coastal and island stations. The 1988 atlas is softcover and is approximately 11.5 by 11.5 inches in dimension and approximately 600 pages. All three volumes are available for purchase online. They consists of Vol. I Gulf of Alaska 1988, Vol. II Bering Sea 1988, Vol III Chukchi-Beaufort Sea 1988, Vol. I Gulf of Alaska 1977, Vol II Bering Sea 1977, Vol. III Chukchi-Beaufort Sea 1977. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: publication CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition Pricing is dependent on customer order specifications. Please contact NCDC for information on fees and terms for retrieving the Data Set or Product.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, ice extent, ceilometers, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, typhoons, atmospheric temperature, temperature sensors, wave height gauges, bathythermographs, wet bulb thermometers, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, coastal stations, usa, noaa, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, storm surge, sea ice, humidity, thermometers, tidal currents, north pacific ocean, air quality, sea surface temperature, visibility, atmospheric phenomena, wave height, anemometers, maximum, minimum temperature, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, tide gauges, cloud height, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, ships, hurricanes, ocean, oceans, gosic, chukchi sea, icebergs, sea level pressure, sea ice concentration, cloud ceiling, gulf of alaska, air temperature, clouds, cyclones, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, wind vanes, ice edges, visual observations, g3os, , ocean waves, surface winds, bering sea, ocean winds, pressure tendency, pacific ocean, wave period, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, tides, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, coastal processes, cloud amount, frequency, ice depth, thickness, hygrometers, esip, storms, dew point temperature, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Computed Thaw Depth Data, Kuparuk Basin, Alaska, 1995. ABSTRACT: Cumulative thawing degree-day data were computed from data collected during the 1995 field season at Kuparuk Basin, Alaska. The air temperatures (thawing degree-day sums) from the 10 ARCSS LAII 1-km x 1-km Flux Study Plots (transect from Prudhoe Bay to Toolik Lake) were interpolated onto the Kuparuk DEM. The data files are matrices at weekly intervals beginning with July 10 and ending August 6. There are also matrices available for "end of season," taken as August 11, the last day of simultaneously collected temperature and probing records.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, continent, thawing degree-day, active layer, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, thawing degree day, arctic system science, usa, nsf, opp9612647, united states of america, active layer thickness, north america, alaska, soils, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, opp-9612647, ground-based observations, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, arcss035, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, ice depth, thickness, frozen ground, thaw depth, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Radar Altimeter Sea Surface Topography Product. ABSTRACT: The Sea Surface Topography provides an estimate of the large scale structure of the deviations between the geoid and the mean sea surface in terms of a normalized surface spherical harmonic series. According to its physical meaning, the harmonic series is the potential function of the vector field that represents the large scale ocean circulation. Product characteristics: -------------- Spatial Coverage: global, however values obtained over land do not have any physical meaning. In addition, the harmonic series should only be used within the latitude range <+82, -82> Time Coverage: product will cover a time period that is as long as the acquisition period of level 2 records available at D-PAF. Time Rate of Generation: The Sea Surface topography product is generated every 6 months. The first time it is produced is when 6 months of level 2 altimeter data for the 35 day repeat cycle are available. ------------- To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, sea surface, sea surface topography, esa, esrin, mediterranean sea, global ocean, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, sea topography, ra, sea surface height, ocean, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Atmospheric CO2 Records from Sites in the Main Geophysical Observatory (Russia) Air Sampling Network (1983-1993), in CDIAC, Trends Online. ABSTRACT: This dataset represents carbon dioxide (CO2) measurements taken from stainless steel flasks as part of the Main Geophysical Observatory (MGO) air sampling network in Russia. The following data were provided: Bering Island, Russia (1986-1993) Kotelny Island, Russia (1986-1993) Kyzylcha, Republic of Uzbekistan (1989-1991) Station "C", Atlantic Ocean (1983-1990) Teriberka Station, Russia (1988-1993) All of the MGO stations are coastal or island stations with the exception of Kyzylcha which is located in the desert. Daily atmospheric CO2 concentrations from Ocean Station "C", Teriberka Station, Bering Island, and Kotelny Island are also available as a CDIAC Numeric Data Package (NDP) - NDP-033 (1991). This package is available on CDIAC's ftp site in the directory: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub ndp033" All of the above data are tabulated in TRENDS as monthly averages of atmospheric CO2 concentrations in parts per million by volume (ppmv). All of the data in TRENDS are available online from CDIAC. "http:  cdiac.ESD.ORNL.GOV trends co2 main.htm" Please cite this dataset as: Brounshtein, A.M., A.A. Shashkov, N.N. Paramonova, V.I. Privalov, and Y.A. Starodubtsev. 1994. Atmospheric CO2 records from sites in the Main Geophysical Observatory air sampling network. In Trends: A Compendium of Data on Global Change. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, U.S. Department of Energy, Oak Ridge, Tenn., U.S.A.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, greenhouse gases, co2, greenhouse effect, station c, arctic, north atlantic ocean, greenhouse gas, bering island, mgo, russia, cdiac-65, ground stations, europe, trends, uzbekistan, climate change, ground-based observations, polar, carbon dioxide, ftp, trace gases, trace species, main geophysical observatory, kyzylcha, asia, earth science, teriberka station, usa, nasa, southcentral asia, eastern europe, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global warming, ocean, kotelny island, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Quaternary Biostratigraphy Lab Data from Sediment Cores in Canada. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of taxonomy, identification, and laboratory data on forams, pollen, ostracods, and related information analyzed from sediment cores and grab samples collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic).To identify age and environmental parameters at the time of deposition for unconsolidated sediments. Useful for determining biostratigraphy of recent to Holocene sediments. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, age dating, arctic ocean, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, none, east coast, north america, ontario, land records, geochronology, nova scotia, canada, cgdi, foraminifera, hudson bay, ocean, canada, new brunswick, rocks, minerals, geographic region, sediments, microfossils, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, pollen, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, marine, coastal zone, marine geology, paleontology, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, environmental parameters, polar, earth science, ceos, mackenzie delta, quebec, sedimentary rocks, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, biostratigraphy, micropaleontology, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Weekly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day (MYD29E1D) data set contains fields for sea ice by reflectance and Ice Surface Temperature (IST). Each data granule covers the entire globe with two separate arrays of 4501 x 4501 pixels: one for the Arctic and one for the Antarctic. The MODIS sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, sea ice extent, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, polar sea ice, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Marine Sediment Cores from the Canadian Arctic and Atlantic Oceans. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet listing radiocarbon dates on marine sediment cores from the Canadian Arctic and Atlantic Oceans.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, paleoclimate, marine, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, marine sediments, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, sediments, 
TITLE: Canadian Communities Gallery - Educational Project Showcase. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Communities Gallery (CCGallery) is a service of the Atlas of Canada that provides access to the best and broadest collections of on-line educational geography and social studies projects and community web sites. The CCGallery offers a unique searchable database with an interactive mapping search result. This allows users to conduct a search by subject and geographical area and to explore this search result in an interactive mapping window. Many well-known organizations use the CCGallery to provide easy and well-defined searches of their project collections. The current contributors are: The Atlas of Canada, The Canadian Communities Atlas, Statistics Canada, Profiling Canada, SchoolNet GrassRoots, GrassRoots Communities@ca, ESRI Canada, School and Libraries Program. The CCGallery will be inviting other organizations to use this service for their own collections of on-line projects and community web sites. Our goal is to make this service the most comprehensive collection of on-line projects and web sites describing Canada. Participating Organizations All of the organizations contributing to the Canadian Communities Gallery are doing so in order to share their collections of projects and resources. Each organization's projects and resources have a unique flavour and origin but at the same time all offer something describing a part of Canada's human, economic and physical geography. Many schools combine the projects and programs offered by our contributors to provide the most comprehensive information in their on-line work. Discover Canada through school-based projects and community web sites. Here is a brief description of each organization's contribution: The Canadian Communities Atlas, part of Natural Resources Canada's Atlas of Canada, offers schools the opportunity to create an Internet-based Atlas of their community. The atlas structure is designed around physical, economic and human geographic themes. By linking students' Community Atlas projects to the Atlas of Canada, through the Canadian Communities Gallery, both local and national perspectives of many relevant geographic subjects can be accessed. Statistics Canada is the country's national statistical agency and offers quality and detailed statistical educational resources. These are organized into three broad subject matter areas: demographic and social, socio-economic and economic. Projects produced by schools making use of this information and data in projects such as Profiling Canada and others can be accessed in the Canadian Communities Gallery. The SchoolNet GrassRoots Program, together with its provincial, territorial and corporate partners, promotes academic, employability and computer skills in Canadian youth by integrating information and communication technology into learning. The GrassRoots Program offers funding to schools for the creation of innovative and interactive learning projects on the Internet. All of these projects that are geography and social studies related can be accessed in the Canadian Communities Gallery. GrassRoots Communities@ca is a national competition open to all K-12 Canadian schools. Students working with their local community create a web site to showcase the place where they live. Sites created by students will involve them in project-based learning activities, doing research within their own local communities in such areas as the arts and culture, geography, history, economic life and the environment. ESRI Canada offers schools and libraries a program using ArcView, a Geographic Information System (GIS). It brings the power of interactive mapping and analysis to everyone. ESRI Canada is dedicated to promoting the use of ArcView GIS in schools (Kindergarten to Grade 12 or OAC) and libraries as this exciting technology will allow students to explore their world in a whole new way. The Physical Geography subject categories are: geology; tectonics   seismology; gradation; climate; soil; vegetation; oceanography; hydrology and environment   land use   wildlife   pollution. The Economic Geography subject area breaks down into the following categories. Primary industries are forestry, farming, agriculture, mining, hunting and fishing, and energy; secondary is manufacturing industry; tertiary is service industry; quaternary is high tech; community employment   labour; and the travel   tourism industry. The Human Geography subject categories are: demographics   population; First Nations; cultures and ethnic origins; settlement   community; vital statistics; language and education; social conditions   justice   health; politics   government; recreation and local notables. Other subject areas covered by schools include land use, environmental effects, sustainable development and topography. School and community web sites are from all Canadian provinces and territories: Yukon, Nunavut, Northwest Territories, British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland, Labrador.The Canadian Communities Gallery (CCGallery) is a service of the Atlas of Canada that provides access to the best and broadest collections of on-line educational geography and social studies projects and community web sites. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, social indicators and politics, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, metals, earthquake occurrences, first nations, human health, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, other primary industries and secondary industry, human dimensions, economic geography and forestry, land cover, nova scotia, land use, land cover, biosphere, settlement and vital statistics, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, tertiary industry and quaternary industry, new brunswick, oceans, human geography and demographics, geographic region, lake huron, western hemisphere, st. lawrence river, continent, shorelines, gcmd, natural resources, seismology, vegetation, physical geography and gradation, farming , mining , fishing, nunavut, lake erie, northwest territories, lake winnipeg, agriculture, climate and soil, vegetation and oceanography, united states of america, saskatchewan, lake superior, tectonics, soils, snow, ice, community employment and tourism, polar, hydrology and environment, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, quebec, geology and tectonics, alberta, tides, lake ontario, coastal processes, language and education, prince edward island, newfoundland, recreation and local notables, atlantic ocean, georgian bay, cultures and ethnic origins, 
TITLE: Institute of Marine Science, U Alaska-Fairbanks Database; Physical, Chemical, Biological and Geological Data. ABSTRACT: The Institute of Marine Science (IMS) maintains an oceanographic database using the Ingres(tm) relational database management system (RDBMS). It contains physical, chemical, biological and geological data from the Gulf of Alaska, Bering Sea, Chukchi Sea, Beaufort Sea, Prince William Sound, Cook Inlet and other coastal waters. Currently, the database contains data as far back as 1970 and it is about 500 Mbytes in size. Access is restricted to IMS researchers. However most data can be extracted from the database and forward to other researchers on a at-cost basis. Copies of most data were submitted to the National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC). Physical Oceanography % STD - Salinity, Temperature and Depth. 60% of the database. % CM - Current Meters. % TG - Tide Gauges. Biological Oceanography % INFAUNA - Benthic Data from the Bering and Chukchi Seas. % PHYTO - Phytoplankton data from the ISHTAR project. % ZOOP - Zooplankton data from the ISHTAR, APPRISE and other projects. % CHL - Chlorophyll data from the ISHTAR project. % PP - Primary productivity, carbon and nitrogen uptake data from the ISHTAR project. Chemical Oceanography % NUTRIENT - Nutrient chemistry data from the ISHTAR project. % METAL - Heavy metal concentration data. (very small) Geological Oceanography % GRAIN SIZE - Sediment grain size data from the beaufort and chukchi seas. Exxon Oil Spill Data -------------------- This database is "litigation sensitive." Access is restricted to researchers working on the Coastal Habitat Injury Assessment (CHIA) project. % INTERTIDAL % Invertebrates % Fishes % Algae % Semicircle Density % Limpet Growth Survivorship % Mussel Growth Survivorship % Swath Data % Mussel Histology % Photo Analysis % SUBTIDAL % Shallow Infaunal and Epifaunal Data % Deep Infaunal Data, 40+ Meters The Institute of Marine Science (IMS) is the oldest and the largest unit of the School of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences. It is active in research and graduate training at the masters and doctoral levels, supports coastal facilities at Seward and Kasitsna Bay, and operates the 133-foot research vessel Alpha Helix for the National Science Foundataion.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, arctic ocean, exxon, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, chia, north america, alaska, idn_node gsfc, esdd, plankton nets, aquatic ecosystems, ocean chemistry, std, prince william sound, biosphere, sedimentation, sediment, tide gauges, ecosystem functions, alaska directory, ships, primary production, ocean, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, sediments, continent, gulf of alaska, nutrients, apprise, united states of america, ishtar, plankton, marine sediments, bering sea, polar, pigments, erosion, sedimentation, zooplankton, earth science, chlorophyll, land surface, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, cook inlet, salinity, temperature, depth, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: MARKIII-CTD dataset collected in Arctic Ocean and adjacent sea during the 2nd CHINARE in 2003. ABSTRACT: CTD data were obtained by CHINARE with MarkIIIC-CTD on Xuelong.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ships, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, arctic, cn, geographic region, 
TITLE: GISP2 Atmospheric Sampling Site (ATM) Aerosols, 2 Years. ABSTRACT: This data consists of the measured aerosol concentrations from the atmospheric sampling site (ATM) during the 1993 and 1994 summer field seasons. The concentrations are in units of nanomole per cubic meter. The times in the tables are expressed as local Greenland time (i.e. Greenwich Mean Time - 2 hrs). Aerosol filter sampling was conducted during the summers of 1993 and 1994 at the solar powered remote atmospheric sampling site located 28 km southwest of the GISP2 camp (72.58N, 38.46W, 3205 m) in 1993 and 10 km southwest of the GISP2 site in 1994. Particles were collected on 90 mm Teflon Zefluor filters (1 mm pore size). The filter holders were open faced and covered with a large polyethylene bucket to prevent the collection of snow on the filter. Vacuum pumps were located in a trench beneath the surface. Airflow was measured using a Rockwell gas meter. The filters were run for approximately 16 hours each day during routine sampling periods excluding episodes of fog. During intensive sampling periods filters were changed every eight hours. In all cases, the flow rate was approximately 85 l min-1. All handling of the filters was done by personnel wearing clean room garb and shoulder length plastic gloves. Filters were removed from the filter holders in the field and stored in airtight Pyrex bottles. All filters were kept frozen until analysis at the Laboratoire de Glaciologie et Geophysique de l'Environement (LGGE) in Grenoble, France. In order to minimize the evaporation of volatile aerosols on the filter, extraction took place in a clean hood in a cold room at -12o C. First, 1.0 ml of ultra pure methanol was added to the bottle to wet the filter. Then 9.0 ml of deionized water were added to the bottle to dissolve the soluble particles. Secondary extractions were run on 5 of the 155 filters from the 1994 field season. The average efficiency of the primary extraction was determined to be 93% based on the amount of soluble ions in the secondary extraction. The filter extracts were analyzed by ion chromatography for fluoride, lactate, acetate, glycolate, formate, methane sulfonate, chloride, nitrate, sulfate, oxalate, sodium, potassium, ammonium, magnesium, and calcium by ion chromatography. Detection limits for all three chemical species were calculated as 3 times the standard deviation of the amount of material on the field blanks divided by the volume of air drawn through each filter. While each filter sample had its own detection limits based on the filtered air volume, the mean aerosol concentration detection limits for 1993 and 1994 are summarized in the detection limit table. The atmospheric concentrations were calculated by subtracting the mean chemical mass on the blank filters from the mass on the sample filter.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, aerosol particle properties, aerosols, sulfate particles, arctic, earth science, ceos, usa, noaa, gisp2, greenland, particulate matter, north america, greenland ice sheet project ii, nitrate particles, atm, geographic region, dust, ash, smoke, 
TITLE: Ship Drift Surface Current Archive (NOO) and Subsurface Float Data (WOCE) on CD-ROM from NODC. ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM from the National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC) contains two types of data: surface currents and subsurface float trajectories. The surface currents are from the Surface Current Data Archive of the Naval Oceanographic Office (NOO). The file contains more than 4 million observations. Most observations were obtained from the ship drift method, in which the difference between a ship's dead-reckoned position (determined from its previous position, speed and heading) and actual position (determined from a navigational fix) is ascribed solely to the effect of surface currents. The ship drift method allows indirect determinations of ocean surface currents. In addition, about 5,100 observations were taken using the Geomagnetic Electrokinetograph (GEK). These are direct instrument-measured current data. Also, surface current data summaries are provided in NODC Long Summary format. The data are summarized by Modified Canadian 10 degree square, 1 degree square, and month for all years. The subsurface float trajectories are from the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE) Subsurface Float Data Assembly Center located at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI). The trajectories are derived from SOFAR (Sound Fixing and Ranging), RAFOS (SOFAR spelled backward) and ALACE (Autonomous Lagrangian Circulation Explorer) floats. The SOFAR and RAFOS floats are ballasted for a target depth and acoustically tracked. The ALACE floats cycle vertically from a depth of neutral buoyancy to the surface where they relay to System Argos satellites. 475 float trajectories and 432 float-years of data are included. Float depths range from a few hundred meters to several thousand, with most observations falling in the 700m to 2000m depth range. Most trajectories are located in the North Atlantic with some recent observations in the Pacific and South Atlantic. The set consists of two CD-ROMS. Disk 1 contains the data, and disk2 contains the summaries. Each disk costs $55, the set $110. For more information and to order the CD-ROM set, see the NODC WWW page: "http:  www.nodc.noaa.gov" [The information in this summary was derived from NOAA's Earth System Monitor newsletter and NODC's WWW page.]. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, world ocean circulation experiment, arctic, global, usa, noaa, gek, woce, equatorial, rafos, sea surface, currents, earth science information partners program, polar, vertical location, amd, us, southern ocean, drifting buoys, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, alace, ships, sofar, north atlantic, ocean, subsurface currents, surface currents, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Russian Rivers Data Set. ABSTRACT: Monthly river flow rates and maximum yearly flow rates for selected rivers in Russia were obtained from Esther Munoz and Seelye Martin at University of Washington, School of Oceanography. The data were originally compiled by UNESCO and the State Hydrological Institute in St. Petersburg, Russia, which is part of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Moscow, Russia.. KEYWORD: maximum flow rate, nsidc, environmental monitoring, yana, arctic, water level gauges, usa, noaa, russia, discharge, ground stations, freshwater, kolyma river, terrestrial hydrosphere, flow, state hydrological institute, ground-based observations, dzanghky, gauge, kolyma, hydrology, streams, ob river, river basin, stream gauges, office of polar programs, national science foundation, khatanga, arcss021, surface water, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, monthly flow rates, indigirka, geographic region, kusur, arcss, nsf, opp, continent, khatanga river, svedne-kolymsk, annual discharge, usa, nsf, yana river, maximum daily, ob, monitoring techniques, lena river, unesco, amu-darya, yenesei, europe, lena, hydrometeorology, olenek river, rivers, polar, igarka, olenek, fixed observation stations, earth science, anadyr, ceos, minimum daily, salekhard, laptev sea, eastern europe, rivers, streams, yenesei river, vorontsovo, kara sea, anadyr river, 
TITLE: LANDSAT 4 5 Thematic Mapper (TM) System Corrected Pre-Flight Radiometric Correction and Cubic Convolution resampling Product. ABSTRACT: Landsat TM data are available from December 1982 to February 1983 (Landsat 4) and from April 1984 onwards (Landsat 5). Most of the ESA archive has been acquired and processed at receiving stations in Fucino (Italy), Kiruna (Sweden) and Maspalomas (Gran Canaria, Spain). However, the archive contains also a substantial number of data acquired and processed by receiving stations elsewhere (e.g. the US, Brasil, Canada, etc). As well as being available in Raw Format, Landsat data is corrected for distorsions in the imagery to a number of levels: one is the Corrected Pre-Flight Radiometric Correction and Cubic Convolution resampling product. A Landsat 4 and 5 TM scene has an instantaneous field of view (IFOV) of 30 square meters in bands 1 through 5 and band 7, band 6 has an IFOV of 120 square meters on the ground. The resolution for the TM sensor is shown below: -------------------- Resolution Landsats 4-5: (meters) Band 1: 30 Band 2: 30 Band 3: 30 Band 4: 30 Band 5: 30 Band 6: 120 Band 7: 30 ------------------- Landsat TM SCPRCC Product is available in a digital format for: - Full scene: Full scene cover approximately 183 x 172.8 km. A standard full scene is nominally centred on the intersection between a path and row (the actual image centre can vary by up to 20 km). For a floating full scene the placement along the path is chosen by the customer. The centre point of the floating full scene is defined by the path number and the required latitude. A full image is composed of 6920 pixels x 5760 lines and each band requires 40 Mbytes of storage space. - Quarter scene: ESA TM data (digital or photographic) is available in quadrants, each measuring 91.5 x 86 km. This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. Numbering of standard quarter scenes is as follows: for floating quarter scenes the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the floating quarter scene is defined by latitude and longitude. - Mini scenes: ESA TM data is available as images covering an area 47.2 x 44 km (a 16th of a full scene). This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. The scenes are floating and the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the scene is defined by latitude and longitude. To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, habitat conversion, fragmentation, global terrestrial observing system, desertification, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, biosphere, deforestation, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, erosion, gosic, geographic region, regional deforestation, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landsat-5, reforestation, landsat-4, vegetation, equatorial, wetlands, esa, esrin, thematic mapper, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, erosion, sedimentation, asia, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, crust, regional reforestation, rivers, streams, tm, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Arctic Meteorological Oberservations from the Koldewey Ground Station and Research Ship FS Polarstern. ABSTRACT: These data are collected by the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Bremerhaven for the Arctic at the Koldewey Ground Station (79N,12E) since 1990 and at the research ship FS Polarstern since 1983. The synoptic observations at Koldewey are carried out by the NORSK POLARINSTITUTT at 6,12,18 UTC. They include measurements of air temperature (at 2 m height), air pressure (values are reduced to mean sea level), wind vector, dew point temperature (at 2 m height), clouds (cloud amount, type and height), horizontal visibility, present and past weather and snowdrift. The data is coded (FM12-SYNOP) and transferred directly to the Global Telecommunication System (GTS) by a Data Collecting Platform (DCP) where it contributes to weather forecasting. Data are accessible via Web network by means of the AWI-Home-Page, 'http:  www.awi-bremerhaven.de', and can be obtained from AWI after prior consultation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, germany, dlr, arctic, arctica, synoptic observations, atmospheric pressure measurements, air pressure, www, weather, humidity, thermometers, ground stations, snowdrift, terrestrial hydrosphere, air quality, visibility, relative humidity, surface, meteorology, anemometers, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, atmospheric winds, ships, ocean, water vapor, hypsometers, geographic region, snow depth, idn_node esrin, dlr, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, clouds, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, cloud types, koldewey ground station, cloud amount, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, wind vector, hygrometers, atlantic ocean, polarstern, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Cumulative Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: The development of the Antarctic ice shelves during the period 1770-1950 based on expedition maps. ABSTRACT: Since about 1773 when the British captain James Cook first crossed the Antarctic Circle a vast amount of scientific data on conditions around Antarctica have been collected. Many of these data originate from the hundreds of Antarctic expeditions of exploration and commerce that have taken place. The data exist largely in the form of maps, charts and logbooks, a large number of which not only contain data about new discoveries of land, but also about the extent of ice shelves and the occurrence of sea ice and ice-bergs in the Antarctic seas. Detailed records of ice limits were kept because ice posed a great danger to the ships and prevented whalers and seal hunters from reaching their hunting grounds. At the present time, a great deal of research is being carried out into the dynamics of Antarctic ice, both causes and consequences. However, it was not until the 1950's that the systematic and long-term recording of meteorological data and ice conditions in the Antarctic region really started. This period is too short to reliably detect changes and trends in ice extent around Antarctica. By studying old maps and logs, however, the period for which data is available can be significantly extended. Although scattered in time, information from historic maps can provide valuable insight in how the present ice situation around Antarctica compares to the situation from 1800 onward. The information collected under this project is being used to compile an integrated digital dataset. Spatial information is stored and analyzed in a Geographical Information System (GIS), facilitating the systematic comparison of map data. Information from logbooks and journals are compiled in a database and linked to geographic locations or features. In this way, an overview of the dynamics of the edges of the Antarctic floating ice over the study period is being created. In this study, data covering Antarctica as a whole will be taken into account. The main focus, however, is on the Weddell Sea (Ronne and Larsen Ice Shelves) and on the Ross Sea (Ross Ice Shelf). Because of their relatively good accessibility, these areas were frequently visited and charted during commercial and scientific expeditions.. KEYWORD: ice extent, extent, continent, amd, nl, arctic, ice, expeditions, gis, expedition maps (1770-1950), dynamics, shelf ice, ice edges, sea ice, historical maps, snow, ice, polar, maps, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, shelf, digitizer, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY SNOWFENCE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney_snow.html"] As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney Snowfence station (in Wright Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, vegetation, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soil temperature, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, biosphere, antarctica, radiation, automatic remote weather station, frozen ground, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, snowfence, lawn, snow depth, 
TITLE: Raw data of XBT and XCTD by the 18th CHINARE in 2001-2002. ABSTRACT: This raw data of MAKE IIIC-CTD was been collected in Prydz Bay region of the Southern Ocean during the austral summer of 2001 2002.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, xctd, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, xbt, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, weddell sea, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Administrative Regions Boundaries of Europe from UNEP GRID-Geneva. ABSTRACT: [The summary was adapted from original documentation provided by UNEP GRID-Geneva] UNEP GRID Documentation Summary for Data Set: Administrative Regions Boundaries of Europe The Administrative Regions Boundaries data set shows sub-national administrative areas within the European continent. Generally speaking, the data set contains second-level administrative units for the whole of Europe, including countries outside the European Community (EC) in northern, eastern and central Europe. For the 12 member countries of the EC, the data are nearly identical with NUTS level II boundaries. The Nomenclature des Unites Territorial Statistiques is the name used by the EC to define different hierarchical administrative levels. Level II typically refers to provinces or counties. To enable incorporation of non-EC regions, a second coding system has been provided, in addition to the NUTS system. Both coding systems are included in the data set. The original coverage was provided to GRID by Eurostat in the Lambert Azimuthal projection, which is the EC standard projection. GRID has re-projected the coverage to fit the Latitude Longitude coordinate system. Furthermore, attributes supplied by Eurostat for population size, names and surface areas have been checked, edited and added to the coverage in order to assure greater consistency within the data. The resulting administrative regions map, covering a pan-European area, contains 2555 polygons for 415 regions and includes attribute data for the size, name and population for several years between 1980 and 1991. For technical reasons, the attribute data for the names have been put in a separate 'Info' file. In Arc Info uncompressed 'EXPORT' format, the coverage plus attribute data comprises 10.7 Mb of data. The coverage in Lat Long projection is called EUADMLL and the associated 'Info' file EUNAMLL.INF. These files can be read from tape to disk using Arc Info's TAPEREAD command and subsequently be imported into Arc Info using the commands: IMPORT COVER EUADMLL EUADMLL and IMPORT INFO EUNAMLL EUNAMLL.INF. The attribute file can then be joined with the polygon attribute file of the main coverage (EUADMLL.PAT) using Arc's JOINITEM command or Info's RELATE command. The item to be used for this is called EUADMLL-ID. The data set extends geographically from -24 31' 19" West to 31 36' 18" East longitude and from 27 38' 13" to 71 10' 8" North latitude. The coverage is also available in the original Lambert Azimuthal projection. The source for the pan-European Administrative Boundaries data set is: Commission of the European Communities, Eurostat - GISCO, Luxembourg. References to the data set are: - The CORINE Database Manual; Directorate General for the Environment, Nuclear Safety and Civil Protection, Commission of the European Communities, Version 2.2, Brussels, November 1989. - Regions; Nomenclature of territorial units for statistics; Eurostat; Luxembourg, March 1992. - List of administrative regions for European countries outside the Community; Eurostat, Luxembourg, December 1992. The Arc Info attributes are explained below: EUADMLL.PAT ----------- Item: Description: Values: ARRGCD Administrative Region code see list NURGCD NUTS Region Code see list ARRGCTCD Adm. Region Continental Code EE = EUROPE - EC EF = Europe - EFTA EN = Europe - others A = Asia F = Africa S = Seas Lakes P = Arctica ARRGLBLV Adm. Region Label Level 1 = biggest polygon by admin. region 2 = all others TOTAREA Area of region in km2 POP80 1980 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP85 1985 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP87 1987 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP88 1988 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP89 1989 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP90 1990 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants POP91 1991 Pop. of ARRGCD region no. of inhabitants (Redefined Items:) ARRGCD0 Admin. Region Code Level 0 country level ARRGCD1 Admin. Region Code Level 1 regional level ARRGCD2 Admin. Region Code Level 2 regional level NURGCD0 NUTS Region Code Level 0 country level NURGCD1 NUTS Region Code Level 1 regional level NURGCD2 NUTS Region Code Level 2 regional level EUADMLL.AAT ----------- Item: Description: Values: ARRGBNLV Admin. Region Boundary Level Type of boundary: -1 Coastline 0 National boundary 1 Regional boundary 2 Regional boundary 3 Regional boundary EUNAMLL.INF ----------- Item: Description: Values: EUADMLL-ID unique identifier same as in EUADMLL.PAT NAME Name of ARRGCD NURGCD region in national language. KEYWORD: continent, national boundaries, shorelines, unep, global resources information database, arc, info, gis, european community, gnv00158, boundaries, un, human dimensions, cultural features, europe, idn_node gsfc, unep, grid, earth science, ceos, maps, charts, administrative divisions, population size, population, coastal processes, unep, grid, nuts, infrastructure, administrative regions, political divisions, oceans, pan-european boundaries, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MOD10C2) consists of 7200-column by 3600-row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg climate modeling grid (CMG). Data and quality assurance (QA) fields are in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, 
TITLE: Data set of chlorophyll collected by 16th CHINARE in 1999-2000. ABSTRACT: Surface water was sampled during 16th CHINARE and data set of surface concentration of chlorophyll was obtained.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, arctic, vegetation, plants, amd, cn, phytoplankton, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, polar, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, macroalgae (seaweeds), earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, chla, ocean, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (ATLAS) Data at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: The Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions (LAII) Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (ATLAS) program is designed as an interdisciplinary multi-year project with many investigators and varied instrumentation to address the affect of global climate change on Arctic systems. Information on the ATLAS Project is located at the LAII web page: "http:  www.laii.uaf.edu ". The overall goal of LAII is an understanding how the feedback processes within Arctic system affects global climate change, including changes in the hydrology, biochemical, plants animals, and ecosystems; as well as how these changes affect and are affected by human activities. For more information and access to data see: http:  data.eol.ucar.edu codiac projs?ATLAS. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, arcss, laii, arctic, vegetation, air temperature, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, usa, noaa, arctic system science, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, land surface temperature, atlas, codiac, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, climate change, ground-based observations, surface winds, polar, surface air temperature, laii, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, maximum, minimum temperature, biosphere, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, land temperature, biochemistry, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arcss, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Monthly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: ARM North Slope Alaska, Atmospheric Profiling. ABSTRACT: The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program is the largest global change research program supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ARM scientists focus on obtaining field measurements and developing models to better understand the processes that control solar and thermal infrared radiative transfer in the atmosphere (especially in clouds) and at the earth's surface. The URL for the ARM Data Archive is "http:  www.archive.arm.gov ". The URL for general information about the ARM program is "http:  www.arm.gov ". The data stored by the ARM Archive includes numerous parameters about radiative flux, meteorology, water vapor and clouds. The North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean (NSA AAO) site is providing data about cloud and radiative processes at high latitudes. These data are being used to refine models and parameterizations as they relate to the Arctic. The NSA AAO site is centered at Barrow and extends to the south (to the vicinity of Atqasuk), west (to the vicinity of Wainwright), and east (to Oliktok). Atmospheric profiling data at Barrow and Atqasuk are collected using many specialized instruments. Detailed information on each instrument is available at " http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The following list contains the instrumentation used for atmospheric profiling and the data available for the Barrow and Atqasuk sites. Microwave Radiometer (MWR). For complete MWR information, see " http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The MWR provides time-series measurements of column-integrated amounts of water vapor and liquid water. The instrument itself is essentially a sensitive microwave receiver. That is, it is tuned to measure the microwave emissions of the vapor and liquid water molecules in the atmosphere at specific frequencies. A MWR is operated at a frequency that is optimized for a particular atmospheric condition. For example, different frequencies may be used under low water vapor conditions while others may improve liquid water retrievals. At Barrow (C1), MWR data are available for 1998-01-02 to present. At Atqusk (C2), MRW data are available for 1999-10-18 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsamwrlos: water liquid and vapor along line of sight path nsamwrtip: airmasses, brightness temperatures in TIP mode nsa5mwravg: 5-minute average integrated vapor and liquid water nsaqmemwrcol: derived: QME comparing column water from MWR vs. instrument model Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Balloon-Borne Sounding System (BBSS). For complete BBSS information, see " http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The BBSS provides in-situ measurements (vertical profiles) of both the thermodynamic state of the atmosphere, and the wind speed and direction, pressure (hPa), temperature (degC), and relative humidity (percent RH) are measured as functions of time during a free-balloon ascent. Secondary (derived) quantities included in the data stream, also measured as functions of time, are altitude (gpm), dew point (degC), ascent rate (m s), latitude of sonde (degN), longitude of sonde (degW), u-component of wind velocity (m s), and v-component of wind velocity (m s). At Barrow (C1), BBSS data are available for 2002-04-28 to present. ARM data stream is coded as follows: nsasondewnpn: Vaisala-processed pressure, temperature and relative humidity. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Radar Wind Profiler and Radio Acoustic Sounding System (RASS) (RWP915). For complete RWP915 information, see " http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The RWP915 measures wind profiles from (nominally) 0.1 km to 5 km and virtual temperature profiles from 0.1 km to 1.5 km. It operates by transmitting electromagnetic energy into the atmosphere and measuring the strength and frequency of backscattered energy. Virtual temperatures are recovered by transmitting an acoustic signal vertically and measuring the electromagnetic energy scattered from the acoustic wavefront. The propagation speed of the acoustic wave is proportional to the square root of the virtual temperature. The primary quantities measured with the system are the intensity and Doppler frequency of backscattered radiation. The wind speed is determined from the Doppler frequency of energy scattered from refractive index fluctuations (caused primarily by moisture fluctuations but also by temperature fluctuations) embedded within the atmosphere; the virtual temperature is determined from the Doppler frequency of microwave energy scattered from acoustic energy propagating through the atmosphere. RWP915 data at Barrow (C1) is available for 2001-04-01 to present. ARM data streams for temperature are coded as follows: 915rwptempcon: temperature profile data 915rwptempmom: temperature profile data 915rwptempspec: temperature profile data Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. ARM data streams for wind are coded as follows: 915rwpwindcon: wind profile data 915rwpwindmom: wind profile data 915rwpwindspec: wind profile data Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, light detection and ranging, arctic, wind profiles, mwr, atqasuk, arm nsa site c2, air temperature, clouds, wind profilers, radio acoustic sounding system, atmospheric pressure measurements, united states of america, north america, alaska, humidity, radiosondes, lidar, rawinsondes, arm, climate change, barrow, arm nsa site c1, polar, cloud liquid water, ice, atmospheric radiation measurement project, earth science, department of energy, usa, nasa, microwave water radiometer, atmospheric water vapor, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, global change, rass, doe, geographic region, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Terrain and Vegetation of Imnavait Creek, AK: Toposequence Study. ABSTRACT: This data report is a summary of environmental, soil, and vegetation information collected from 23 study plots at the Department of Energy R4D research site, located near Imnavait Creek in northern Alaska. Data include site factors, soil classification, description, and physical and chemical properties, and plant species cover. Study plots characterize two typical hillslopes of the Imnavait Creek Watershed. An assessment for photointerpreting vegetation signatures based on data findings is provided. Data are available only as a hard-copy paper report.. KEYWORD: land management, opp9318530, biological classification, geomorphology, alpine, tundra, periglacial processes, plant communities, ecological dynamics, arctic, landscape ecology, usa, noaa, opp-9415554, arctic system science, topographic effects, peatlands, alaska, hillslope, glacial landforms, processes, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, species dominance indices, ground-based observations, soil horizons, profile, marshes, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, magnesium, biosphere, watershed characteristics, opp9415554, seasonally frozen ground, opp-9214959, opp-9318530, topographical relief, frozen ground, organic matter, deciduous vegetation, opp9214959, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, soil taxonomy, arctic ecosystem, point quadrat, ground water, canopy characteristics, angiosperms (flowering plants), mosses, hornworts, liverworts, terrestrial habitat, cameras, usa, nsf, plants, aerial photographs, soils, polar, erosion, sedimentation, community dynamics, cryosphere, weathering, landscape patterns, conifers, palustrine wetlands, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, fungi, soil salinity, soil sodicity, solid earth, nsidc, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, soil structure, evergreen vegetation, vegetation species, soil depth, snow cover, north america, soil bulk density, human dimensions, toposequence, land cover, soil classification, r4d, gymnosperms, arctic system science data coordination center, water channels, topography, plant ecology, fluvial landforms, processes, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, surface water, landforms, community structure, geographic region, arcss, active layer, potassium, snow melt, ph meters, vegetation, arcss111, wetlands, soil consistence, united states of america, visual observations, riparian wetlands, snow, ice, vertical location, soil texture, calcium, nitrogen, soil plasticity, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, land surface, soil color, arcss, laii, flux, contours, adcc, tundra, vegetation communities, imnavait creek, soil ph, rivers, streams, lichens, dominant species, drainage, plant characteristics, landscape, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Global Single-Layer Ionospheric Model (SLIM). ABSTRACT: The daily ionospheric grid produced for the International GPS Service for Geodynamics (IGS), under the Ionosphere Associate Analysis Center (IAAC), is useful to single frequency users of the post-processing GPSPACE point positioning software. The daily ionospheric grid also provides valuable estimates of Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite and receiver differential code biases, required in the Canada-wide real-time GPS correction data (GPSC) ionospheric model implementation. Data is archived daily in RINEX (Receiver Independent Exchange) format.To study the ionosphere using GPS observations from a global tracking network and provide ionospheric corrections to users of single frequency GPS equipment. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, single-layer ionospheric model, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, slim, british columbia, global, nunavut, equatorial, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, satellite, eastern hemisphere, yukon territory, reference systems, canadian active control system, cacs, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, land surface, gps, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, canada, cgdi, corrections, gpspace, ionospheric model, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, southern hemisphere, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Atmospheric CH4 Record from in situ Measurements at Alert, Canada, in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of methane (CH4) measurements from the Canadian baseline air chemistry observatory located at Ellesmere Island in the Canadian Arctic. Automated measurements of CH4 at Alert were made using a gas chromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector. Please use the following citation for this dataset: Worthy, D.E.J., N.B.A. Trivett, and M.K. Ernst. 1994. "Atmospheric CH4 record from in situ measurements at Alert", pp. 366-371. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change', ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA. Global CH4 data from NOAA CMDL are tabulated in the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center's (CDIAC's) 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change' (Boden, et al, eds., 1994) as depth, year, and CH4 concentration (ppmv) and is available via ftp: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 ch4 " CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for all data available in CDIAC's anonymous FTP in pub trends93 ch4. The FTP address is CDIAC.ESD.ORNL.GOV and 128.219.24.36 and input your email address as the password. The data bases are arranged as subdirectories in  pub trends93  (co2, ch4, trace, emiss, precip, and temp) that correspond to major chapter headings in Trends '93. The data files are arranged as xxxxx.yyy where xxxxx is the name of the station, country, site, region, or principle investigator and yyy is the page number in Trends '93 (example: vostok.231 refers to the Vostok ice core dataset as tabulated on page 231.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, ftp, trends'93, trace gases, trace species, greenhouse effect, arctic, elsmere island, earth science, usa, nasa, ch4, greenhouse gas, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global warming, canada, alert, north america, methane, ground stations, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Yearly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Branch of Pacific Marine Geology Sample-oriented Digital Data Base, USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Summary level describes each U.S. Geological Survey, Office of Pacific Marine Geology cruise. Inventory level describes each individual sampling activity. Sample log details tests on each sample. Data level contains results of tests and assessments (geologic, engineering, biological). Data is from the Pacific Ocean and Arctic Ocean basins. Data base is mostly complete for region offshore of central and northern California. Interactive access from outside the facility is limited at present.. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, arctic ocean, continent, arctic, sea floor, aedd, continental shelves, geology, paleoclimate, continental margins, marine, stratigraphy, marine biology, cores, marine geology, united states of america, north america, stratigraphic sequence, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, coastal habitat, land records, logs, polar, vertical location, geochemistry, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, samples, sediment, bathymetry, seafloor topography, sedimentary rocks, ocean, cruise, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: ARCTIC TUNDRA FLUX STUDY IN THE KUPARUK RIVER BASIN (ALASKA), 1994-1996. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: CO2 and water vapor fluxes and ecosystem characteristics were measured at 24 sites along a 317-km transect from the Arctic coast to the latitudinal treeline in Alaska during the growing seasons of 1994-1996. The sites were stratified to sample the ranges of climate, physiography, soil moisture, and vegetation type within the region. Our main objective was to understand what factors control variations in CO2 and water vapor exchange across the region. We therefore developed a spatially extensive approach of documenting fluxes for 1-2 weeks at each of the sites in order to study as many sites as possible during the middle of the short arctic growing season, when plant phenology is most comparable among different vegetation types and climatic regions. This allowed us to compare, with some replication, a given vegetation type across different provinces and climatic zones, as well as multiple vegetation types within a given geographic area.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, continent, earth science, echo, usa, nasa, field investigation, eosdis, atmospheric winds, sonic anemometer, earth science information partners program, united states of america, earth observing system data information system, north america, alaska, esip, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Yearly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Dataset of Zhongshan Station GPS tracking station system from 2003 to 2004. ABSTRACT: Zhongshan Station perennial satellite positioning tracking station is China's domestic satellite tracking network to the southern tip of the expansion of the Earth, both of China's satellite orbit determination or research, are very important to add, at the same time, China's participation in the window of the Antarctic cooperation. Antarctic geodesy research is based on the framework of the structure of SCAR (ICSU Antarctic Scientific Research Committee) was organized and implemented an international large-scale scientific research cooperation projects. The project began in 1992, conducted on an annual basis for 22 days the entire Antarctic GPS measurement battle together, our two stations since 1994 to participate. Its aims: (1) Measurement of the Antarctic plate quickly with the adjacent panels, as well as micro-plate faster faster the relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; (2) to identify the various internal Antarctic plate crust block the relative motion between; (3) reunification of the Antarctic, the vertical system of benchmarks to determine the Antarctic tide gauge stations of the elevation above sea level; (4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement, "the interaction of global and Antarctic" respect scientific research. In late 1998 of China's Zhongshan Station in the Battle of the SCAR GPS observatories built a perennial GPS satellite tracking station, the purpose of obtaining long-term follow-up site, a large number of, the original GPS system observational data through scientific calculation and comparison, access to GPS tracking site position in space with time resulting trajectory for the Antarctic region, geodynamics, geophysical structure and study the Earth's shape to provide information and data; and the Antarctic region precision positioning control points to provide quality date and reliable data. At the same time, the station of observational data on the analysis of satellite tracking technology to improve the accuracy of China's satellite orbit determination are useful.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, control surveys, gps receivers, gravitational field, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: Aids To Navigation. ABSTRACT: Provides the position and status of navigational aids in Canada. This data is provided by the Canadian Coast Guard which establishes and maintains these aids which provide guidance to vessels to navigate safely through Canadian waterways.To manage, maintain, and provide "Aids to Navigation" in Canadian waters in order to facilitate safe and expeditious movement of maritime traffic to protect the marine and freshwater environment, maintain maritime safety and to facilitate maritime commerce and ocean development.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, geobrowser, human dimensions, geoportal, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, natural hazards, hydrological hazards, bathymetry, seafloor topography, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Canadian Sea Ice Atlas from Microwave Remotely Sensed Imagery. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Sea Ice Atlas from Microwave Remotely Sensed Imagery was one of Canada's contributions to the United Nations International Space Year (ISY)-1992. The Sea Ice Atlas was funded by the Atmospheric Environment Service (AES) [now Meteorological Service of Canada (MSC)] Canadian Climate Centre, the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), the Institute for Space and Terrestrial Science (ISTS), and private industry. The sea ice atlas consists of monthly total sea ice concentrations from July 1987 to June 1990 using data from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) instrument on the U.S. Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) polar orbiting satellites. The sea ice concentration was derived using the AES York sea ice concentration algorithm. The satellite maps are presented in two formats: for each month, the total sea ice concentration is shown with a color scheme that roughly parallels the color spectrum from red (100% ice cover) to blue (0% ice cover). For the months of February and September, which represent the maximum and minimum sea ice extent, a second representation is shown in which per cent ice cover by category is shown. The categories are thin ice, first-year ice and multi-year ice. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, north atlantic ocean, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, nunavut, northwest territories, sea surface, ice types, satellite imagery, north america, sea ice, spectral, engineering, polar regions, microwave, north pacific ocean, sea ice age, idn_node ccrs, vertical location, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, ssm, i, microwave remote sensing, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, arctic regions, oceans, microwave imagery, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Permafrost and Snow Depth Data from Barrow, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains soil temperature, soil moisture, thaw depth, and snow depth data collected at test sites near Barrow, Alaska, during the following years: Soil temperature data - 1963-1966, 1993 Soil moisture data - 1963 Thaw depth - 1962-1968, 1991-1993 Snow depth - 1963-1964. This study focused on characterizing the active soil layer at Barrow, and determining the relationships between and among these physical properties at permafrost sites in the Arctic.. KEYWORD: nsidc, soil moisture, water content, sediment corers, thermocouples, arctic, usa, noaa, opp-9214897, arctic system science, active layer observations, north america, alaska, soil temperature, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, barrow, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, seasonal thaw layer, seasonally frozen ground, permafrost, shallow active layer, frozen ground, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, nsf, continent, active layer, arctic coastal plain, usa, nsf, united states of america, active layer thickness, probes, soils, snow, ice, polar, crrel, soil moisture, opp9214897, laii, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, arcss036, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, thaw depth, 
TITLE: Senckenberg - CeDAMar Resource (CEDAMAR). ABSTRACT: Distribution of benthic deep sea organisms below 2000 m depth in world oceans, collected from different research vessels between 1868 and 2005. Data gathered from published scientific literature. Total Distribution Records 9017 Total Number of Taxa 2678. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, census of diversity of abyssal marine life, biological classification, sponges, crustaceans, arthropods, arctic, western pacific ocean, cedamar, obis, chelicerates, published literature, global ocean, segmented worms (annelids), habitat: abyssal plain deeper than 2000m in the worlds oceans, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, cumacea, coml, peanut worms, tantulocarida, isopods, ships, ocean, tanaidacea, south pacific ocean, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, eastern pacific ocean, animals, invertebrates, north atlantic ocean, gastropods, bristle worms, polar, census of marine life, southern ocean, copepods, pacific ocean, earth science, lamp shells, ceos, kinorhyncha, ocean biogeographic information system, roundworms, arachnids, atlantic ocean, central pacific ocean, halacarida, 
TITLE: Active Layer Monitoring, Arctic and Subarctic Canada. ABSTRACT: This project involves measuring regional and site variability in maximum annual active layer development and vertical surface movement over permafrost, and monitoring sites over time in order to observe trends. The project records maximum thaw penetration, maximum heave and subsidence, late season snow depths, current depth of thaw, elevation, and soil properties. Some sites are twinned with soil- and air-temperature recording equipment. The project includes about 60 monitoring stations extending from Fort Simpson, Canada, in the upper Mackenzie River valley to the Beaufort Sea coast at North Head, Richards Island, Canada. Ten of the sites are part of the IPA's Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program. CALM site numbers are in parentheses after the site names: North Head (C3), Taglu (C4), Lousy Point (C5), Reindeer Depot (C7), Rengleng River (C8), Mountain River (C9), Norman Wells (C11), Ochre River (C13), Willowlake River (C14), and Fort Simpson (C15). See the CALM Program Web page for geographic coordinates and site history for all CALM sites. These data are the property of the people of Canada and the responsibility of the Geological Survey of Canada. If published, adequate acknowledgment is expected. Please contact F. M. Nixon regarding use of the data set or access to the extended data.. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, active layer, periglacial processes, geocryology, arctic, usa, noaa, agriculture, north america, soil temperature, soils, thaw, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, soil moisture, thermokarst, topography, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, freeze, thaw, land surface, monitoring, arctic and subarctic, permafrost, canada, snow, frozen ground, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: USGS Geologic Map of North America. ABSTRACT: The Geologic Map of North America (published February 2005) portrays the grand architecture of the continent as we understood it in the closing years of the 20th century. As the final product of the Geological Society of America's Decade of North American Geology project, it was compiled by John C. Reed, Jr. (USGS), John O. Wheeler (Geological Survey of Canada), and Brian E. Tucholke (Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution). The map is at a scale of 1:5,000,000 and covers about 15% of the Earth's surface. The previous geologic map of North America (North American Geologic Map Committee, 1965) was published before general acceptance of plate tectonics, before radiometric dates were widely available, and when the geology of the sea floors was largely unknown. The old map distinguished about 100 rock units, all of them onshore. The new map distinguishes 939 units, of which 142 are offshore. It also depicts many geologic features not shown on the previous map, including volcanoes, calderas, impact structures, axes of submarine canyons, spreading centers, transform faults, magnetic isochrons, and subduction zones. For the first time it portrays the relationships between the geology of the continent and the geology of the ocean basins that flank it. The map was compiled over an interval of almost 25 years and its assembly spanned the technological change from traditional cartography to digital cartography. Although the map is not yet available in digital form, plans are underway for construction of a digital database and ultimately for the release of GIS compatible files. [Summary provided by the USGS.]. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, geomorphology, minerals, crystals, arctic, field surveys, geology, earth science information partners program, north america, plate boundaries, glacial landforms, processes, tectonics, land cover, eolian landforms, processes, polar, maps, topography, geological society of america, earth science, fluvial landforms, processes, land use, land cover, land surface, karst landforms, processes, igneous rocks, usa, nasa, metamorphic rocks, geology of north america, tectonic landforms, processes, plate tectonics, landforms, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, coastal landforms, processes, rocks, minerals, esip, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: Siberian Mapping Project. ABSTRACT: The purpose of the Siberian Mapping Project is to improve forest cover maps and create above ground biomass maps of the Siberian boreal forest. The project is aimed at improving forest disturbance detection methods, studying the tundra-taiga ecotone, differentiating between natural and human-caused disturbance mechanism and mapping boreal forest structure using the Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite data. The boreal forest in the Earth's largest terrestrial biome, covering some 12 million square km and accounting for about one third of this planet's total forest areas. Mapping of boreal forest's type, biomass, and other structural parameters are critical for understanding the boreal forest's significance in the carbon cycle, its response to and impact on global climate change. [Summary provided by NASA.]. KEYWORD: terra, alpine, tundra, fed, general circulation model, ecological dynamics, arctic, field surveys, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, gcm, land surface temperature, russia, geographic information system, forest science, modis, ice, cloud and land elevation satellite, aster, maps, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, ecosystem functions, icesat, land temperature, geoscience laser altimeter system, geographic region, landsat-7, continent, forest type, misr, vegetation, forest characteristics, earth observing system, terra (am-1), forest composition, vegetation structure, agriculture, biomass dynamics, gis, earth science information partners program, enhanced thematic mapper plus, europe, polar, ikonos, etm+, boreal forest, glas, earth science, land surface, usa, nasa, forests, forest management, eastern europe, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, multi-angle imaging spectroradiometer, forest ecosystem dynamics, esip, siberia, landsat, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: UARS Halogen Occultation Experiment (HALOE) Level 2 V001 (UARHA2FN) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: The HALOE home page on the WWW is http:  haloe.gats-inc.com home index.php The Halogen Occultation Experiment (HALOE) on NASA's Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) investigates upper atmosphere chemistry, dynamics and radiative processes, particlarly stratospheric ozone destruction and chlorofluromethane impact on ozone. HALOE is a solar occultation experiment designed to monitor the vertical distribution of HCl, HF, CH4, and NO by gas filter correlation radiometry and H2O, NO2, O3, and CO2 by broadband filter radiometry. The HALOE instrument typically views 15 sunrise and sunset events each day, scanning the solar disk from limb to limb during each event. The latitude longitude location of the HALOE data varies with the spacecraft-Earth-Sun position. For a given day, the locations tend to be in two distinct latitude bands and to sweep across the full longitude range. Coverage across the full range of latitudes is achieved on a time period ranging from about two to six weeks depending on the time of year. The latitude coverage extends from 80 degrees north to 80 degrees south. The HALOE level 3AT data consist of 13 granules per day. A data granule is one HALOE species or subtype per day. The following subtypes are available: 1) AEXTCH4 - aerosol extinction at 3.46 um (CH4 gas filter), 2) AEXTCO2 - aerosol extinction at 2.80 um (CO2 gas filter), 3) AEXTHCL - aerosol extinction at 3.40 um (HCL gas filter), 4) AEXTHF - aerosol extinction at 2.45 um (HF gas filter), 5) AEXTNO - aerosol extinction at 5.26 um (NO gas filter), 6) CH4 - methane, 7) H2O - water vapor, 8) HCL - hydrogen chloride, 9) HF - hydrogen fluoride, 10) NO - nitric oxide, 11) NO2 - nitrogen dioxide, 12) O3 - ozone, and 13) TEMP - atmospheric temperature. Aerosol extinction coefficients are measured in units of 1 km, chemical species are given in parts per million by volume (ppmv), and temperature is in units of degrees Kelvin. Each of the 13 HALOE granules is accompanied by 2 additional parameter files, designated as level 3TP. The first parameter file, subtype LAT, contains the latitude values for each pressure level of each event for the day. The second parameter file, subtype LON, contains the longitude values. The level 3AT files only contain the latitude longitude location corresponding to the 30 km retrieval point. The HALOE level 3AT data product consist of profiles that have been interpolated both vertically and horizontally from the original profiles to standard surfaces and locations defined by the UARS project for all limb-viewing instruments. The level 3AT format is common to all UARS instruments to allow for intercomparison. The level 3AT data product consists of time-ordered profiles, and are spaced at intervals of 1 UARS minute (65.536 seconds), or about 495 km along the tangent track (horizontal resolution). The vertical resolution for the level 3AT HALOE profiles is defined by the UARS pressure levels (in mbars) given by: P(i) = 1000 * 10**(-i 6) for i = 0, 1, 2, ... which gives approximately 2.5 km increments between pressure surfaces.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, arctic, echo, nitrogen dioxide, no2, haloe level 3a, middle atmosphere, humidity, mesosphere, air quality, nitric oxide, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, o3, hydrogen chloride, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric chemistry, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, photochemistry, methane, amd, geographic region, upper atmosphere research satellite, no, aerosols, hydrogen fluoride, global, air temperature, ozone, eosdis, haloe, hcl, earth science information partners program, daily data, upper atmosphere, aerosol extinction, stratosphere, vertical location, polar, amd, us, h2o, halogen occultation experiment, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, stratospheric chemistry, usa, nasa, ch4, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, ozone chemistry, esip, uars, hydrochloric acid, hf, 
TITLE: Onshore Offshore Experiment in the Bering-Chukchi Sea,. ABSTRACT: This report contains the data from fourteen deep-crustal wide-angle seismic reflection and refraction profiles recorded onland in western Alaska and eastern Siberia from marine air gun sources in the Bering- Chukchi Sea. The wide-angle seismic data were acquired to image reflectors in the upper to lower crust, determing crustal and upper mantle velocieies, and provide constraints on the Moho geometry.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, program for array seismic studies of the continental lithosphere, seismology, seismic profile, united states of america, russia, north america, alaska, passcal, seismic reflection, seismic surface waves, moho, western alaska, europe, north pacific ocean, seismic body waves, incorporated research institutions for seismology network - global seismographic network, bering sea, velocities, iris, seismic refraction, pacific ocean, earth science, lithosphere, usa, nasa, crust, iris-gsn, eastern europe, ocean, chukchi sea, siberia, 
TITLE: CODAR Real time wave data. ABSTRACT: Coastal Ocean Dynamics Applications Radar(CODAR) Real-Time Sea State Measurements are available online. Data includes: Significant Wave Height Peak Wave Period CODAR is used to measure the surface currents of the coastal ocean. A transmitter sends out a radio frequency that bounces off the ocean surface and back to areceiver antenna. Using this information and the principles of the Doppler shift, CODAR is able to calculate the speed and direction of the surface current. These calculations are made at about every half mile across the surface and extend as far as about twenty miles offshore.. KEYWORD: continent, wave spectra, wave period, earth science, water temperature, wave frequency, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, wave height, usa, nasa, significant wave height, north america, sea state, wave length, new jersey, oceans, wind waves, ocean waves, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Snow patch in Adventdalen (2). ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this borehole was drilled in Adventdalen, in the the old, dry river channel from Todalen. The channel collects 2-3m of snow in winter. An automatic camera is used to monitor the snow cover. The borehole was drilled to 10m and instrumented to 5m. Stratigraphy: 0-2m: Till. Possibly silt and clay layers from 1.5m. Some ice 1-1.5m. Ice-rich 1.5-2m. 2-3.3m: Ice-rich (~50%) and silt clay layers. A few thin coarser layers 3.3-4m: Coarser and less ice. 4-6m: Some ice (less with depth). Silt clay layers in coarser (gravel) material. 6-10m: silt sand (clay). Increasing plasicity with depth.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, adventdalen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Data for concentrations of greenhouse gases from the tundra on Fildes Peninsula,Antarctica between 1999 and 2002. ABSTRACT: Methane and nitrous oxide flux through pressure-tight box law determination. After obturator the seal each 20 minutes produce with the Japanese agriculture environment research institute vacuum fixed time gather in the box the gas, simultaneously uses to install on the pressure-tight box in the thermometer determination box temperature. All gas sample in the Chinese Academy of Science Nanjing soil matter circulation open laboratory determination, the methane density determines with the GC-FID gas chromatography meter; The nitrous oxide density uses the GC-ECD gas chromatography meter determination. In the inspection ship route sea surface the atmospheric sample uses same vacuum box has lifted the top of the head through two needle to gather, opens the laboratory in the Nanjing soil matter circulation to determine with the same method.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, img, nitrogen compounds, earth science, ceos, interferometric monitor for greenhouse gases, antarctica, tundra, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, observatories, amd, cn, amd, firedamp, geographic region, south pole, greenhouse air, great wall station, 
TITLE: Reindeer Vegetation and Range Community Surveys; USDA SCS. ABSTRACT: This report is a collection of vegetation and range community studies conducted throughout Alaska, with special emphasis on reindeer habitat and associated vegetation.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, reindeer, habitat, alpine, tundra, landcover, ecological dynamics, arctic, vegetation, aedd, range, deer, moose, marine, usa, usda, agriculture, united states of america, rangeland, mammal, north america, alaska, seward peninsula, ground stations, wildlife, polar, biomass, nunivak island, community dynamics, even-toed ungulates, aircraft, earth science, vegetation cover, mammal population, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, agricultural plant science, animals, vertebrates, alaska directory, environment, wildlife distribution, conservation, community structure, mammals, ocean, crop, plant yields, animal, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canopy Foliage Area Index, Toolik Lake, Alaska, 1995 and 1996. ABSTRACT: Leaf Area Index (LAI) was measured for tundra plots at the Toolik Lake Field Station during the summers of 1995 and 1996. Measurements were made on control plots, plots from which snow was removed, and plots from which snow was removed before the installation of heating cables at 10-cm depth. Plots with heating cables were heated two hours per day. A Li-Cor LAI-2000 was used to measure LAI. Data are available in ASCII and MS Excel formats via ftp.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, canopy foliage area index, arctic, vegetation, canopy characteristics, opp9615845, leaf area index, licor, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss, laii, itex, opp-9321626, usa, nsf, united states of america, lai, north america, alaska, opp9321626, ground-based observations, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, toolik lake, biosphere, adcc, licor plant canopy analyzer, arcss058, national science foundation, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, geographic region, leaf characteristics, opp-9615845, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Snow Melt Onset Over Arctic Sea Ice from SMMR and SSM I Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: Yearly snow melt onset dates over Arctic sea ice are derived from Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) and Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) brightness temperatures. The introduction of liquid water to snow results in a sharp increase in the emissivity and hence brightness temperature of the snowpack. Snow melt onset is defined as the point in time when microwave brightness temperatures increase sharply due to the presence of liquid water in the snowpack. Data cover the years 1979 through 1998, and are in a polar stereographic grid at 25 km resolution. Tab-delimited ASCII files and GIF images are accessible via ftp. Several value-added products are also available.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, snow melt, tbs, polar stereographic, climate proxy, arctic, special sensor microwave, imager, dmsp, dmsp 5d-2, f11, smmr, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, nimbus-7, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, sea ice, gridded data, polar, snow melt onset dates, ftp, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, esip, geographic region, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, passive microwave brightness temperatures, 
TITLE: Global Bathymetric and Topographic Data in a 5-Minute Grid Available from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. ABSTRACT: The ETOPO5 data set consists of global bathymetric and topographic data in a 5-minute grid. Users can subset the data for various grid resolutions (5min, 10min, 15min, 30min, 1deg, 2deg, 5deg, 10deg) and for geographic regions (by inputting latitude and longitude).. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, marine geophysics, global, equatorial, mediterranean sea, north america, south america, europe, seafloor spreading, polar, vertical location, amd, us, africa, southern ocean, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, ceos, australia, usa, nasa, antarctica, plate tectonics, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Real Time Satellite Images of Ocean Temperature. ABSTRACT: The images in our database are from the AVHRR (advanced very high resolution radiometer). Record approximately 9 of these passes per day. These images are just a small sample of the area that can be seen. The satellite dish on our roof allows us to see as far south as Puerto Rico, as far west as Nevada, and up to 65 degrees N latitude and 40 degrees W longitude.The images on the pages have been calibrated to show sea surface temperatures. Land temperatures, though slightly inaccurate, show the heat emitted from major cities (such as Philly and NYC).. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, infrared wavelengths, north atlantic ocean, earth science, infrared imagery, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, brightness temperature, united states of america, ocean, canada, north america, alaska, gulf of mexico, bahamas, oceans, spectral, engineering, atlantic ocean, infrared radiance, avhrr, caribbean sea, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid (MYD10A1) contains snow cover, snow albedo, fractional snow cover, and Quality Assessment (QA) data in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format along with corresponding metadata. MYD10A1 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, albedo, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Diagnostic For Magnitude Of Tropical Cooling At Last Glacial Maximum. ABSTRACT: The LGM Tropical Terrestrial Data Synthesis was used as a diagnostic by Pinot et al. (1999) and in the IPCC (2001). An updated version of this diagram was presented by Harrison (2000). In this diagram, the uppermost histogram shows the frequency of reconstructed temperature changes, based on terrestrial data, at the elevation of the individual sites colour-coded by region (Central and South America, circum-Indian, Western Pacific). The histogram at the right shows the frequency of reconstructed sea-surface temperature changes, based on alkenone data from the TEMPUS data set (Rosell-Mel et al., 1998), colour-coded by ocean basin (Pacific, Atlantic, Indian). To use this graphic for diagnostic purposes, the simulated change in temperature over land and ocean should be plotted. This could be the zonal mean, or regional averages for the land areas ocean basins distinguished for the observations. The line drawn on the graph represents the zonal mean sea-surface temperature calculated from the CLIMAP (1981) gridded data set, for comparison.. KEYWORD: intergovernmental panel on climate change, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, global, paleoclimate modelling intercomparison project, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, pmip, lgm, sst, quaternary, lake level reconstruction, polar, last glacial maximum, paleo stop date 0 ybp, paleoclimate reconstructions, reconstructed sea surface temperature, earth science, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, reconstructed temperature changes, paleo start date 18000 ybp, ipcc, air temperature reconstruction, geographic region, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected IKMT trawl by 6th CHINARE in 1989-1999. ABSTRACT: 36 IKMT planktonic samples were collected from Antarctic.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Black Carbon in Arctic Snow, Samples from Vestfonna, Svalbard - Kinnvika (Norway). ABSTRACT: Transport of atmospheric contaminants into the Arctic. Black carbon data from snow samples across the Vestfonna ice cap, Svalbard. Point data. Data set organization Excel file, organized by sampling site and date. Methodology or analytical tools The samples are transported and stored frozen. Samples are melted and filtered through quartz fibre filters in the laboratory. The filter substrates are analysed for elemental and organic carbon using the Thermal Optical Carbon Aerosol Analyzer with NIOSH 5040 protocol. Units and unit resolution. Analysed carbon in cm<sup>-2< sup>, which is converted to a carbon concentration l<sup>-1< sup>. Resolution: 10<sup>-2< sup>. Purpose and or intended use of data. Mapping of light absorbing carbonaceous particles in Svalbard snow. Chemical transport model validation. Process studies for evolution of the snowpack impurity content.. KEYWORD: polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, field surveys, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ipy, ocean, international polar year, snow, ice chemistry, probes, atlantic ocean, geographic region, snow, ice, albedo, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day (MOD29E1D) data set contains fields for sea ice by reflectance and Ice Surface Temperature (IST). Each data granule covers the entire globe with two separate arrays of 4501 x 4501 pixels: one for the Arctic and one for the Antarctic. The MODIS sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, sea ice extent, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, polar sea ice, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Psychological surveys and interviews of visitors to Antarctica over three phases of their journey. ABSTRACT: Visitors to Antarctica (Ross Sea Region) were examined via survey and questionnaires over three phases of their experience; 1) anticipation of the visit, 2) during the on-site visit and 3) upon return home after the visit. This method was used on different groups of visitors with the aim to examine a cycle of experience, comparing groups of visitors through this cycle and analysing for change or transition as a result. Data was obtained by the author upon visiting the Ross Sea in the 2003 2004 season and supplemented with data from the 2002 2003 season and surveys completed by passengers aboard the tourist vessel Kapitan Khlebnikov of Quark Expeditions. The research examines the mindset and experience of visitors who come into physical contact with the continent but do not achieve or help to achieve scientific results.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, social behavior, arctic, earth science, psychological parameters, ceos, attitudes,preferences,behavior, antarctica, human health, amd, nz, amd, human dimensions, geographic region, 
TITLE: 1998-1999 Raw data of CTD in Prydz Bay region of the southern Indian Ocean, CHINARE-15. ABSTRACT: A series of measurements in water temperature, conductivity and depth was carried out during the austral summer of 1998 99 within and the north of Prydz Bay, the southern Indian Ocean.34 oceanographic stations were successfully completed and 3.77MB CTD data were obtained.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) ARC002: Zooplankton Communities in Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska. ABSTRACT: LTER - Long-Term Ecological Research Program Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska (ARC) LTER ARC002 [Summary adapted from the LTER Core Data Set Catalog]: Vertical zooplankton tows were taken at two stations in Toolik Lake. The stations were located near the deepest part of the lake (20 m) and in a shallow arm (5 m). Samples were preserved and later sorted for density, species composition, and community comparisons. Information about the Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Program can be obtained from: "http:  lternet.edu ". KEYWORD: nsf, continent, arctic, lter, usa, nsf, arc, long-term ecological research, united states of america, north america, alaska, plankton, arc002, aquatic ecosystems, lakes, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, zooplankton, earth science, toolik lake, usa, nasa, biosphere, surface water, ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: ARM North Slope Alaska, Cloud Measurements. ABSTRACT: The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program is the largest global change research program supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ARM scientists focus on obtaining field measurements and developing models to better understand the processes that control solar and thermal infrared radiative transfer in the atmosphere (especially in clouds) and at the earth's surface. The URL for the ARM Data Archive is "http:  www.archive.arm.gov ". The URL for general information about the ARM program is "http:  www.arm.gov ". The data stored by the ARM Archive includes numerous parameters about radiative flux, meteorology, water vapor and clouds. The North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean (NSA AAO) site is providing data about cloud and radiative processes at high latitudes. These data are being used to refine models and parameterizations as they relate to the Arctic. The NSA AAO site is centered at Barrow and extends to the south (to the vicinity of Atqasuk), west (to the vicinity of Wainwright), and east (to Oliktok). Cloud measurements at Barrow and Atqasuk use many specialized instruments. Detailed information on each instrument is available at "http:  www.arm.gov docs instruments.html". The following list contains the instrumentation used to monitor clouds and the data available for the Barrow (C1) and Atqasuk (C2) sites. Vaisala Ceilometer (VCEIL). For complete VCEIL information, visit "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The VCEIL is a self-contained, ground-based, active, remote-sensing device designed to measure cloud-base height at up to three levels and potential backscatter signals by aerosols. Model CT25K has a maximum vertical range of 25,000 feet. The ceilometer transmits near-infrared pulses of light, and the receiver telescope detects the light scattered back by clouds and precipitation. The Vaisala ceilometers measure the backscattered light intensity from a pulsed InGaAs diode laser (905 nm) as a function of distance (15-m resolution for the CT25K). These measurements are used to produce derived products that are recorded. These products include (1) The backscatter profile with 15-m resolution; (2) The cloud-bottom height determined with an algorithm to define cloud bottom as the height corresponding to a visibility reduction to 100 m; (3) Secondary cloud-bottom heights from a cloud above the lowest cloud; and (4) Tertiary cloud-bottom heights from an even higher cloud. VCEIL data at Barrow are available for 1997-12-11 to present. At Atqusck, the data are available for 1999-08-22 to present. ARM data stream is coded as follows: nsavceil25k: cloud base heights, 25,000 feet maximum range. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Millimeter Wave Cloud Radar (MMCR). For complete MMCR information, visit "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The MMCR systems probe the extent and composition of clouds at millimeter wavelengths. The MMCR is a zenith-pointing radar that operates at a frequency of 35 GHz. The main purpose of this radar is to determine cloud boundaries (e.g., cloud bottoms and tops). This radar will also report radar reflectivity (dBZ) of the atmosphere up to 20 km. The radar possesses a doppler capability that will allow the measurement of cloud constituent vertical velocities. The primary quantities measured with this system are (1) radar doppler spectra, (2) radar doppler moments, (3) radar reflectivity (dBZ), (4) vertical velocity, and (5) spectral width. Inversions are in development to infer cloud microphysical properties. At Barrow (C1), MWR data are available from 1998-01-02 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsammcrmomentsC1: moments data nsammcrmonC1: moments data nsammcrpowC1: power data nsammcrcalC1: calibration data nsammcrmode01v0091clothC1: Drived: MMCR Mode 1 (stratus mode) moments nsammcrmode02v0061clothC1: Derived: MMCR Mode 2 (cirrus mode) moments nsammcrmode03v0081clothC1: Derived: MMCR Mode 3 (general mode) moments nsammcrmode04v0061clothC1: Derived: MMCR Mode 4 (robust mode) moments Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. The Micropulse Lidar (MPL). For complete MPL information, visit "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The MPL is a ground-based optical remote sensing system designed primarily to determine the altitude of clouds overhead and provides information on cloud base (thick clouds), cloud base and top (optically thin clouds) and an aerosol profile. The physical principle is the same as for radar. A pulse of energy is transmitted and the energy reflected back is measured. From the time delay between the transmitted pulse and the backscattered signal, the distance to the scatterer is inferred. Besides real-time detection of clouds, post-processing can also characterize the extent of the tropospheric mixing layer (the planetary boundary layer), or other particle-laden regions. This eye-safe system is designed for continuous operation. The Micropulse Lidar (MPL) has one measurement channel that records backscatter signals in 300 meter range bins, with the lowest valid range bin beginning at 120 meters above ground level, up to 20+ kilometers. The primary quantity obtained from this signal is the real-time reporting of the lowest detected cloud base in meters, obtained from 60 sec averages. Additional quantities possible through post-processing of the raw signal return include a relative backscatter profile (counts sec meter) with instrument effects removed. Instrument effects include a dead-time correction specific to the individual detector, near-range corrections for the overlap of the transmitting and detection optics, and removal of afterpulsing due to detector saturation from optical crosstalk as the pulse is transmitted. From the relative backscatter profile, other data products are possible. These include cloud boundaries, multiple cloud decks, and layer boundaries. At Barrow (C1), MPL data are available from 1998-05-21 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsamplC1: cloud base and top heights nsamplcmask1clothC1: MPL cloud mask using the first Clothiaux, et al. Algorithm nsamplsmask1clothC1: MPL significance mask using the first Clothiaux, et al. Significance Algorithm. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Microwave Radiometer (MWR). For complete MWR information, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The MWR provides time-series measurements of column-integrated amounts of water vapor and liquid water. The instrument itself is essentially a sensitive microwave receiver. That is, it is tuned to measure the microwave emissions of the vapor and liquid water molecules in the atmosphere at specific frequencies. The MWR receives microwave radiation from the sky at 23.8 GHz and 31.4 GHz. These two frequencies allow simultaneous determination of water vapor and liquid water burdens along a selected path. Atmospheric water vapor observations are made at the hinge point of the emission line where the vapor emission does not change with altitude (pressure). Cloud liquid in the atmosphere emits in a continuum that increases with frequency, dominating the 31.4 GHz observation, whereas water vapor dominates the 23.8-GHz channel. The water vapor and liquid water signals can, therefore, be separated by observing at these two frequencies. At Barrow (C1), MWR data are available for 1998-01-02 to present. At Atqusk (C2), MRW data are available for 1999-10-18 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsamwrlos: water liquid and vapor along line of sight path nsamwrtip: airmasses, brightness temperatures in TIP mode nsa5mwravg: 5-minute average integrated vapor and liquid water nsaqmemwrcol: Derived: QME comparing column water from MWR vs. instrument model Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Whole-Sky Imager (WSI). For complete information on the WSI, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The WSI is an automated imager used for assessing and documenting cloud fields and cloud field dynamics. The WSI is a ground-based electronic imaging system that monitors the upper hemisphere. It is a passive, i.e., non-emissive, system that acquires images of the sky dome through three spectral filters (neutral, red, and blue). From these sky images, we can assess the presence, distribution, shape, and radiance of clouds over the entire sky using automated cloud decision algorithms and related processing. The present WSI model (EO System 6) is capable of image acquisition under daylight, moonlight, and starlight conditions. The WSI measures the sky radiance in approximately 1 3 degree increments over the entire sky dome. The measurements are made in two narrow spectral regions centered at 650 nm and 450 nm. The sky radiances are acquired as two 16-bit images and are used to determine the presence of opaque clouds and thin clouds in the line of sight on a pixel-by-pixel basis. These cloud data are used to calculate the cloud cover and statistical quantities. At Barrow (C1), WSI data are available for 1998-10-19 to present. At Atqusk (C2), WSI data are available for 2001-09-14 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsawsicloud: Derived: cloud numbers, area, perimeter, and more from the WSI nsawsicloudsummary: cloud and aerosol information, classification summary data nsawsifullradiance: calibrated radiances for each pixel, with multiple filters nsawsipatchsummary: radiances from red image for three patches (average and standard deviation). Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Active Remote Sensing Cloud Layer (ARSCL). For Barrow (C1) there are two additional data streams that use data from the Belfort laser ceilometer (BLC), MPL, and MMCR. The BLC was replaced by the VCEIL in 2000. For information on the BCL, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". ARSCL data are available for 1998-11-01 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsaarsclbnd1cloth: cloud boundaries from first Clothiaux algorithms on BLC, MPL, MMCR nsaarsclcbh1cloth: cloud base height from first Clothiaux algorithms on BLC, MPL, MMCR Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ceilometers, continent, arctic ocean, cloud ceiling, cloud lidar system, arctic, mwr, atqasuk, arm nsa site c2, clouds, all-sky camera, cloud vertical distribution, united states of america, north america, alaska, arm, climate change, barrow, arm nsa site c1, polar, crs, cloud liquid water, ice, atmospheric radiation measurement project, earth science, cloud base, department of energy, cls, usa, nasa, microwave water radiometer, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, asc, cloud amount, frequency, ocean, global change, water vapor profiles, doe, geographic region, cloud radar system, 
TITLE: Paper Chart Limits. ABSTRACT: Displays the limits of the paper charts published by the Canadian Hydrographic Service (CHS) and allows user to query the information on each limit. Covers waters used primarily by commercial navigation. Paper charts are hand-amended up to the date of distribution by CHS to the dealers or directly to the mariners. All changes are advertised in the Canadian monthly edition of Notices to Mariners.Navigational Charts of Canadian waters are required in order to facilitate safe and expeditious movement of maritime traffic, to protect the marine and freshwater environment, maintain maritime safety, and to facilitate maritime commerce and ocean development. These limits show what chart coverage is available.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, geobrowser, human dimensions, geoportal, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, transportation, bathymetry, seafloor topography, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, infrastructure, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Rock-Eval Data For Canadian Borehole Cuttings, Core and Outcrop Samples. ABSTRACT: This data set includes Rock-Eval pyrolysis and Total Organic Carbon (TOC) data for borehole cuttings, core and outcrop samples. These data are applicable to studies evaluating petroleum potential and have been utilized in most Canadian sedimentary basins including the Beaufort-Mackenzie, Mackenzie Corridor, Franklinian Geosyncline, Sverdrup (Arctic Islands), Jeanne D'Arc (off the Newfoundland Coast), Scotian Shelf, Michigan, Appalachian, Bowser, Queen Charlotte, Williston and Western Canada Sedimentary Basin. Data collected using commercial pyrolysis instruments Rock-Eval II and Rock-Eval 6.These data are used for the determination of total organic carbon, organic matter quality, kerogen type, thermal maturity estimates, petroleum system analysis, petroleum source potential, petroleum exploration, and energy assessment. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, franklinian geosyncline, oxygen index, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, williston basin, mackenzie corridor, pyrolysis, north america, ontario, petroleum, land records, north pacific ocean, queen charlotte basin, geochemistry, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, organic matter type, fossil fuels, canada, cgdi, organic geochemistry, canada, ocean, new brunswick, michigan basin, scotian shelf, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, environmental geology, gcmd, natural resources, tmax, north atlantic ocean, toc, western canada sedimentary basin (wcsb), nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, boreholes, united states of america, beaufort-mackenzie, production index, saskatchewan, kerogen type, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, total organic carbon, polar, rock-eval, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, source rocks, quebec, biogeochemistry, hydrogen index, alberta, petroleum source rock potential, prince edward island, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: Monthly Atmospheric CO2 Mixing Ratios from the NOAA CMDL Carbon Cycle Cooperative Global Air Sampling Network, 1968-2002. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of monthly carbon dioxide (CO2) mixing ratios from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL - formally the Geophysical Monitoring for Climate Change (GMCC)), Carbon Cycle Cooperative Global Air Sampling Network. Alert, Canada (1985-2002) Amsterdam Island (1982-1990) Ascension Island (1979-2002) Assekrem, Algeria (1995-2002) Azores (1979-2002) Baltic Sea, Poland (1992-2002) Barbados (1987-2002) Barrow (1971-2002) Bermuda, St. David's Head (1989-2002) Bermuda, Tudo Hill (1989-2002) Black Sea, Constanta, Romania (1995-2002) Cape Grim (1984-2002) Cape Kumukahi, Hawaii (1976-2002) Cape Meares, Oregon (1982-1997) Christmas Island, Kiribati (1984-2002) Cold Bay, Alaska (1978-2002) Crozet Island (1991-2002) Dwejra Point, Gozo, Malta (1993-1999) Easter Island, Chile (1994-2002) Gobabeb, Namibia (1997-2002) Grifton, North Carolina (1992-1999) Guam (1979-2002) Halley Bay, Antarctica (1983-2002) Hegyhatsl, Hungary (1993-2002) Izana (1991-1992) Key Biscayne, Florida (1972-2002) Mace Head, Ireland (1991-2002) Mauna Loa, Hawaii (1969-1970, 1976-2002) Midway Islands (Sand Island) (1985-2002) Mould Bay, Canada (1980-1997) Mt. Waliguan, China (1990-2002) Niwot Ridge, Colorado (1968-2002) Ny-Alesund, Svalbard (Norway and Sweden) (1994-2002) Pacific Ocean, ship cruises (1986-1992) Palmer Station, Antarctica (1978-2002) Park Falls, Wisconsin (1994-2002) Point Arena, California (1999-2002) Plateau Assy, Kazakhstan (1997-2002) Samoa (1973-2002) Sary Taukum, Kazakhstan (1997-2002) Sede Boker, Negev Desert, Israel (1995-2002) Seychelles (1980-2002) Shemya Island, Alaska (1985-2002) South Pole Station, Antarctica (1975-2002) Station "C", North Atlantic (1968-1973) Station "M", North Atlantic (1981-2002) Storhofdi, Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland (1992-2002) Summit, Greenland (1997-2002) Syowa Station, Antarctica (1986-2002) Tae-ahn Peninsula, Republic of Korea (1990-2002) Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain (1991-2002) Tierra Del Fuego, La Redonda Isla, Argentina (1994-2002) Ulaan Uul, Mongolia (1992-2002) Wendover, Utah (1993-2002) Virgin Islands (1979-1990) All of the above data are tabulated in online Trends as monthly averages of atmospheric CO2 concentrations in parts per million by volume (ppmv). http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov trends co2 cmdl-flask cmdl-flask.html Please cite this dataset as: Tans, Pieter P. and T.J. Conway, 2005. Monthly Atmospheric CO2 Mixing Ratios from the NOAA CMDL Carbon Cycle Cooperative Global Air Sampling Network, 1968-2002. In Trends: A Compendium of Data on Global Change. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, U.S. Department of Energy, Oak Ridge, Tenn., U.S.A.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, greenhouse gases, mace head, izana, greenhouse effect, arctic, western asia, canary islands, tae-ahn peninsula, alaska, south america, cold bay, ground stations, qinghai province, south atlantic ocean, baltic sea, caribbean sea, trends, ground-based observations, barrow, christmas island, africa, north carolina, seychelles, australia, northern europe, southcentral asia, utah, atmospheric chemistry, global warming, middle east, mauna loa, station "c", continent, algeria, american samoa, co2, north atlantic ocean, hungary, greenland, mongolia, northern africa, cmdl, europe, polar, ftp, pacific ocean, carbon cycle, eastern europe, samoa, midway islands, syowa station, central pacific ocean, kiribati, florida, amsterdam island, south korea, south pole station, nondispersive infrared gas analyzer, argentina, north america, cdiac-65, ndir gas analyzer, co2 analyzers, california, cape kumukahi, mould bay, climate change, ascension island, trace gases, trace species, ulaan uul, svalbard and jan mayen, guam, antarctica, namibia, cape grim, cape meares, ocean, canada, amd, virgin islands, oregon, geographic region, shemya island, indian ocean, bermuda, british isles, climate monitoring and diagnostics laboratory (noaa), flasks, greenhouse gas, halley bay, mediterranean sea, united states of america, alert, key biscayne, kazakhstan, wisconsin, carbon dioxide, amd, us, station "m", hawaii, australia, new zealand, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, malta, iceland, usa, nasa, colorado, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, china, israel, niwot ridge, palmer station, atlantic ocean, azores, barbados, black sea, ireland, southern africa, 
TITLE: GLDAS Noah Land Surface Model L4 Monthly 1.0 x 1.0 degree V001 (GLDAS_NOAH10_M) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Noah 2.7.1 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is monthly. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Noah model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 1 Surface pressure Pa 11 Near surface air temperature K 32 Near surface wind magnitude m s 51 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 57 Total Evapotranspiration kg m^2 s 65 Snow Water Equivalent kg m^2 71 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 85 Average layer soil temperature K 86 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 99 Snowmelt kg m^2 s 111 Net Shortwave Radiation W m^2 112 Net Longwave Radiation W m^2 121 Latent Heat Flux W m^2 122 Sensible Heat Flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average Surface Temperature K 155 Ground Heat Flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface Runoff kg m^2 s 235 Surface Runoff kg m^2 s There are 4 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, heat flux, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Monthly average polar sea-ice concentration. ABSTRACT: The purpose of this data set is to provide paleoclimate researchers with a tool for estimating the average seasonal variation in sea-ice concentration in the modern polar oceans and for estimating the modern monthly sea-ice concentration at any given polar oceanic location. It is expected that these data will be compared with paleoclimate data derived from geological proxy measures such as faunal census analyses and stable-isotope analyses. The results can then be used to constrain general circulation models of climate change. This data set represents the results of calculations carried out on sea-ice-concentration data from the SMMR and SSM I instruments. The original data were obtained from the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC). The data set also contains the source code of the programs that made the calculations. The objective was to derive monthly averages for the whole 13.25-year series (1978-1991) and to derive a composite series of monthly averages representing the variation of an average year. The resulting file set contains monthly images for each of the polar regions for each year, yielding 160 files for each pole, and composite monthly averages in which the years are combined, yielding 12 more files. Averaging the images in this way tends to reduce the number of grid cells that lack valid data; the composite averages are designed to suppress interannual variability. Also included in the data set are programs that can retrieve seasonal ice-concentration profiles at user-specified locations. These nongraphical data retrieval programs are provided in versions for UNIX, extended DOS, and Macintosh computers. Graphical browse utilities are included for the same computing platforms but require more sophisticated display systems. The data contained in this data set are derived from the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) and Special Sensor Microwave  Imager (SSM I) data produced by the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) at the University of Colorado in cooperation with the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The basic data come from satellites of the U.S. Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program. NSIDC distributes three collections of sea- ice-concentration grids on CD-ROM: data from the Nimbus-7 SMMR (October 25, 1978 through August 20, 1987) are provided on volume 7 of the SMMR Polar Data series (NASA, 1992); data from the SSM I are provided on two separate volumes, covering the periods from July 9 of 1987 to December 31 of 1989, and from January 1 of 1990 through December 31 of 1991, respectively. The NASATEAM data from revision 2 of the SSM I CD-ROM's were used to create the present data set. SMMR images were collected every 2 to 3 days, whereas SSM I data are provided in daily ice-concentration grids. Apart from a number of small gaps (5 or fewer days) in the record, the only long period for which no data are available is December 3 of 1987 through January 12 of 1988, inclusive. As ancillary data, the ETOPO5 global gridded elevation and bathymetry data (Edwards, 1989) were interpolated to the resolution of the NSIDC data; the interpolated topographic data are included. The images are provided in three formats: Hierarchical Data Format (HDF), a flexible scientific data format developed at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications; Graphics Interchange Format (GIF); and Macintosh PICT format. The ice- concentration grids are distributed by NSIDC in HDF format.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, sea ice concentration, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, global change climate history program, sea-ice concentration, ocean, sea ice, oceanography, oceans, amd, geographic region, present, total sea ice concentration, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea ice age, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Monthly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Southeast Atlantic Alkenone Sea Surface Temperature Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of sea surface temperatures (SSTs) determined in core TN057-21-PC2 (41089S, 7499E; 4981 m water depth) by the alkenone paleotemperature technique using previously established protocols (Sachs and Lehman 1999, Science 286, 756) and the temperature calibration of Prahl et al. 1998 (Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 52, 2303) Age model from Stoner et al (2000), EPSL, Vol. 183: 161-177. Abstract: A detailed record of sea surface temperature from sediments of the Cape Basin in the subtropical South Atlantic indicates a previously undocumented progression of marine climate change between 41 and 18 thousand years before the present (ky B.P.), during the last glacial period. Whereas marine records typically indicate a long-term cooling into the Last Glacial Maximum (around 21 ky B.P.) consistent with gradually increasing global ice volume, the Cape Basin record documents an interval of substantial temperate ocean warming from 41 to 25 ky B.P. The pattern is similar to that expected in response to changes in insolation owing to variations in Earth's tilt.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, subtropical south atlantic, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, paleo start date 41 ka, arctic, sst reconstruction, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, paleo stop date 10 ka, quaternary, south atlantic ocean, polar, last glacial maximum, paleoclimate reconstructions, paleotemperature, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, alkenone, ocean, cape basin, atlantic ocean, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: Alaska State Soil Survey Database (SSSD); NRCS. ABSTRACT: The Alaska State Soil Survey Database (SSSD) is a digital data set with all attribute data for twelve (12) national cooperative soil survey projects throughout Alaska. They include physical and chemical soil properties; interpretive data are contained in this data set. Additional data are added as new projects completed.. KEYWORD: continent, soil structure, landcover, arctic, usda, scs, aedd, vegetation, soil, usa, usda, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, soils, soil classification, polar, scs, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, land surface, maps, charts, sedimentation, alaska directory, environment, conservation, soil mechanics, geographic region, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Digital Terrain Data Sets for Alaska, USGS. ABSTRACT: This data set contains up to nine types of digital elevation data: 1-1 degree blocks, 2-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of elevation (latitude longitude coordinate system), 3-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of slope, 4-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of aspect (latitude longitude coordinate system), 5-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of filtered elevation (5 x 5 filter), 6-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of elevation (UTM registered), 7-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of slope (UTM registered), 8-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of aspect (UTM registered), 9-1 degree x 3 degree mosaic of shaded relief (latitude longitude coordinate system). Data coverage is from 1982 to present with work ongoing. Data source is 1:250,000 scale Defense Mapping Agency Digital Terrain Series. The data set currently contains 966 records with estimated growth of 5-15 records per year. Storage required varies by selection on area size. Data are available on: 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi, unlabeled, unblocked, or BCD tape. Subsets on the main file and custom formats as well as limited documentation is available. Data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. This data is intended to be used for land cover analysis, wildlife refuge studies, drainage analysis, and land use planning.. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, arctic, aedd, geology, dem, wetlands, land use, united states of america, north america, alaska, geography, ground stations, lakes, satellite, terrestrial hydrosphere, terrain, us, wildlife, polar, hydrology, topography, earth science, ceos, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, contours, surface water, landforms, rivers, streams, topographical relief, dod, dma, dhc-6, drainage, idn_node gsfc, usgs, edc, alaska, geographic region, usgs, dehavilland twin otter, photography, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Canadian Geothermal Data Collection: Deep Permafrost Temperatures and Thickness of Permafrost. ABSTRACT: Precision temperature measurements have been made in some 150 deep wells and holes drilled in the course of natural resource exploration in the permafrost regions of Northern Canada. In most cases, holes were logged by lowering a probe containing a regions of Northern Canada. In most cases, holes were logged by lowering a probe containing a thermistor incrementally down the well, in other cases multi-thermistor cables were left in the holes and periodic measurements taken. In the 1990's, a few holes were logged by a automatic quasi- continuous logging system. Most holes were logged annually for 5-10 years after drilling completion, and measured temperatures show the disturbance due to drilling and the gradual recovery to near-undisturbed conditions. Some holes in the collection are of depth less than 125 m. Permafrost thicknesses are estimated at each well or hole from the depth of the 0 degree Celsius isotherm. This data collection provides the highest quality of permafrost temperature and permafrost thickness information available for Northern Canada. Other data are the large number of downhole temperature and permafrost thickness estimates taken during commercial well logging of petroleum exploration wells, and are by nature of lesser quality. These data are not included in this data set, but references to compilations of this data are provided. A short text (2000 words), tables of site locations and permafrost thicknesses with small-scale maps, and an extensive bibliography accompany the data collection. The file structure and contents of each file are well described. The text is sufficient to locate the data of interest, and the file description is adequate for a user to recover the parameters of interest. The data are presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, boreholes, thermal properties, north america, geothermal, soil temperature, permafrost properties, soils, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, permafrost temperature, canada, onshore and offshore, north of 60 degrees north, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, engineering, permafrost, canada, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, 
TITLE: RADARSAT Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada, Lambert Conformal Conic, 500 Metres. ABSTRACT: The Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS), and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) have collaborated with contributions from RADARSAT International (RSI), to create an ortho-rectified RADARSAT-1 mosaic of Canada. Using CSA's RADARSAT data archive, ScanSAR Narrow B descending mode data were selected. The majority of the data, south of 60 degrees was acquired during the growing seasons of 1998 and 1999. The remaining data were collected during the winters of 1998 and 1999. A digital national mosaic has been produced at a 500m pixel spacing, in a Lambert Conformal Conic (LCC) projection. That data set is available here. Georeference Units : LCC E008 Projection : Lambert Conformal Conic Datum - Ellipsoid : NAD 83 - GRS 1980 Upper Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 10500000.000 N Upper Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 10500000.000 N Image Centre : 250000.000 E 8100000.000 N Lower Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 5700000.000 N Lower Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 5700000.000 N Pixel Size : 500.000 E 500.000 N Upper Left Corner : 177d17'32.31" W Lon 66d54'22.82" N Lat Upper Right Corner : 9d58'39.57" W Lon 62d25'50.45" N Lat Image Centre: 89d56'43.00" W Lon 62d46'47.18" N Lat Lower Left Corner: 122d54'49.00" W Lon 36d12'53.87" N Lat Lower Right Corner: 62d32'49.65" W Lon 34d18'05.61" N Lat True origin : 95d00'00.0000"W 0d00'00.0000"N 1st std parallel : 49d00'00.0000"N 2nd std parallel : 77d00'00.0000"NThe development of the RADARSAT-1 Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada was initiated to provide a unique synoptic view of Canada using data acquired from Canada's first Earth Observation Satellite, launched in November of 1995. It celebrates the fact that RADARSAT-1 has reached and passed its five year design life in orbit. The satellite continues to deliver imagery that has been proven effective in a wide range of applications including ice reconnaissance, disaster management, oceanography and agriculture. This digital product has been developed at a number of scales (technically pixel spacing) to allow a variety of users the ability to download and use this data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: WGRS 1980 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, satellite imagery, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, mosaic, spectral, engineering, radarsat-1, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, radar, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: IAI-ScientificArticles-CRN_003_Darrigo_SEWRW: Temperature Variability over the Past Millennium Inferred from Northwestern Alaska Tree Rings. ABSTRACT: This metadata references the scientific article: "Temperature Variability over the Past Millennium Inferred from Northwestern Alaska Tree Rings", which can be download from here. Authors: *Rosanne DArrigo(1), Erika Mashig(1), David Frank(2), Rob Wilson(3) and Gordon Jacoby(1) (1)Tree-Ring Laboratory, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (2)WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzerland (3)School of Geosciences, Grant Institute, University of Edinburgh *Author to whom all correspondence should be addressed. Tree-Ring Laboratory, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Route 9W, Palisades NY 10964 USA TEL 845-365-8617; FAX 845-365-8152 email rdd@ldeo.columbia.edu We describe a new tree-ring width data set of fourteen white spruce chronologies for the Seward Peninsula (SP), Alaska based on living and subfossil wood dating from AD 1358-2001. A composite chronology derived from these data correlates positively and significantly with summer temperatures at Nome from 1910-1970, after which there is some loss of positive temperature response. There is inferred cooling during periods within the Little Ice Age (LIA) from the early to middle 1600s and late 1700s to middle 1800s; and warming from the middle 1600s to early 1700s. We also present a larger composite data set covering AD 978-2001, utilizing the SP ring width data in combination with archaeological wood measurements and other recent collections from northwestern Alaska. The Regional Curve Standardization (RCS) method was employed to maximize potential low-frequency information in this data-set. The RCS chronology shows intervals of persistent above-average growth around the time of the "Medieval Warm Period" (MWP) early in the millennium, which are comparable to growth levels in recent centuries. There is a more sustained cold interval during the LIA inferred from the RCS record as compared to the SP ring width series. The chronologies correlate significantly with Bering and Chukchi Sea sea surface temperatures and with the Pacific Decadal Oscillation index. These atmosphere-ocean linkages probably account for the differences between these records and large-scale reconstructions of Arctic and Northern Hemisphere temperatures based largely on continental interior proxy data. Key Words: Tree Rings, Dendrochronology, Seward Peninsula, Alaska, North Pacific, PDO CRN003, PI Dr. Brian Luckman.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, iai-dis, atmospheric temperature, paleo start date 1000 ybp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, air temperature, inter-american institute for global change research, paleoclimate, dendrochronology, earth science information partners program, united states of america, north america, alaska, quaternary, seward peninsula, land records, reconstructed temperature, crn, north pacific ocean, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, paleoclimate reconstructions, pacific ocean, north pacific, earth science, iai-science-publications, phanerozoic, collaborative research network program (iai), usa, nasa, ocean, air temperature reconstruction, esip, geographic region, tree rings, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua 5-Day L3 Global Snow Water Equivalent EASE-Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. These Level-3 Snow Water Equivalent (SWE) data sets contain SWE data and quality assurance flags mapped to Northern and Southern Hemisphere 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grids (EASE-Grids). Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, swe, swemap, eos pm-1, eos, echo, global, usa, noaa, snow pack, eosdis, aqua, water resources, water storage, earth science information partners program, imagery, ae_dysno, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, amsr-e, radiance, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, water supply, usa, nasa, passive microwave, daac, nasa, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: The Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) Ancillary Products. ABSTRACT: The Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) ancillary products include the following: -METOZ: National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) Meteorological (MET) and EP-TOMS TOVS Ozone (OZONE) ancillary data used for L1-L2 processing (updated every 4 hours). The files are organized by year and day (YYYY DDD) -OISST: NOAA Optimum Interpolation (OI) Sea Surface Temperature. These files are used as input for the L1-L2 SST processing -MODISA ATTEPH: MODIS Aqua definitive attitude and ephemeris data. These are needed for producing geo-location files. The files are organized by year and day (YYYY DDD). -MODISA CAL: Updated MODIS Aqua Level 1B LUTs (Look-up tables) and Geolocation files -MODIST CAL: Updated MODIS Terra Level 1B LUTs and Geolocation files -utcpole.dat: Most recent version of the Earth motion file used in Level 1 processing. -leapsec.dat: Most recent version of the Leap seconds file - required for accurate time conversions in Level 1 processing. -SeaWiFS GPS elements (elements.dat) -Global 1 Kilometer Land Mask (landmask.dat) These products are used in the data processing system for the generation of Level 2 geophysical products. The data has been reformatted into Hierarchical Data Format (HDF) data files so that it can be used for data processing and by individuals. These ancillary products can be obtained by anonymous FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov  Level-2 processing is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 (MSL12) code, which is developed and maintained by the OBPG. MSL12 is used for the standard processing of all ocean products distributed through the ocean color web browsers and ftp sites. This software is capable of retrieving oceanic optical properties and various derived products from the observed top-of-atmosphere (TOA) radiances collected by a variety of ocean remote sensing radiometers, including MODIS. Full documentation, updated code source, sensor files, and output product descriptions can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MSL12  Earth Probe-TOMS Ancillary Ozone data are global ozone data files in Hierarchical Data Format that are created from Earth Probe Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer data for atmospheric correction in routine data processing. The data files are primarily employed for the processing of Level 1A data to Level 2. The data files are global data files collected twice daily. Ancillary Ozone Data from TOVS (the TIROS Operational Vertical Sounder) are data files in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF) that can be used for routine data processing in the atmospheric correction step. The TOVS data serve as a backup ozone data source to ozone data from EP-TOMS. The data files are created from TOVS data files provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). TOVS is an instrument on the NOAA Polar-Orbiting satellite platforms. The optimum interpolation (OI) sea surface temperature (SST) analysis is produced weekly on a one-degree grid. The analysis uses in situ and satellite SST's plus SST's simulated by sea-ice cover. Before the analysis is computed, the satellite data is adjusted for biases using the method of Reynolds (1988) and Reynolds and Marsico (1993). The OI analysis is done over all ocean areas and the Great Lakes. There is no analysis over land. See the README file at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov OISST README for additional information.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, total ozone mapping spectrometer, arctic ocean, terra, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, earth probe-toms, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aqua, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, surface pressure, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, geographic region, indian ocean, tiros operational vertical sounder, noaa poes, global, earth observing system, terra (am-1), ozone, tovs, eosdis, earth science information partners program, toms, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, ep-toms, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: BACTERIOLOGICAL DATA - UNIVERSITY OF MARSEILLE. ABSTRACT: ENGLISH Data on bacterial biomass, bacterial processes and adaptation to in situ conditions of ocean; data on quantity and quality of organic matter. Water samples were collected from Niskin bottles. Samples came from the Mediterranean, Antarctica, North Atlantic, and from samples collected during the multidisciplinary national programs of INSU (Institut National des Sciences de l'Univers) and the european CORDIS MAST program (Community Research and Development Information Service Marine Science and Technology Program). Measurements include: bacterial degradation in organic matter, bacterial growth, and production rate of methane. Role of bacteria in C, N, and P fluxes. Study of lipid markers. Bacteria adaptation to extreme conditions in the maritime environment. Cellular response to different stress conditions. FRANCAIS Prelevements d'eau (bouteilles Niskin preleveur sans decompression), dans les sediments (carottier multitubes), de particules (pompes in situ). Echantillons en provenance de la Mediterrannee (Ouest et Est - y compris les fosses anoxiques), de l'Antarctique,de l'Atlantique Nord-Est et collectes lors de campagnes multidisciplinaires des programmes nationaux INSU et europeens (MAST). Mesures de la vitesse et rendement degradation bacterienne des principaux composants de la matiere organique dissoute et particulaire (vitesse hydrolyse des macromolecules, vitesse mineralisation des monomeres, et mineralisation des composes de faible poids moleculaire), calcul des rendements de croissance des bacteries. Activites methanogenes et sulfatoreductrices. Mesures de vitesse de production biomasse bacterienne, de methane (degradation anaerobie). Recherche de marqueurs biochimiques (lipides) des activites bacteriennes. Role des bacteries dans le flux de Carbone, Azote et Phosphore. Adaptation des bacteries aux conditions extremes du milieu marin: oligotrophie, barophilie, rayonnement UV. Reponse cellulaire aux differents stress.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, niskin bottles, ecological dynamics, north atlantic ocean, global, biogeochemical cycles, micro-organisms, biomass dynamics, marine biology, mediterranean sea, bacteria, archaea, carbon, arctic, fr, marine sediments, polar, environmental quality, impact, ocean chemistry, nitrogen, earth science, phosphate, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, biogeochemistry, samples, offshore, ecosystem functions, ocean, amd, fr, organic matter, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, world wide coverage, geographic region, indian ocean, coastal, 
TITLE: The Second Airborne Arctic Stratospheric Expedition (AASE-II) on CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM contains the final data pertaining to the Airborne Arctic Stratospheric Expedition II (AASE-II) which was based in Bangor, Maine between October 1991 and March 1992, with ER-2 flights from Ames Research Center, Moffett Field (California), Fairbanks (Alaska), and Bangor (Maine), along with and DC-8 flights from Ames, Bangor, Anchorage (Alaska), Stavanger (Norway), and Tahiti. The data consist of measurements collected onboard the NASA ER-2 and DC-8 aircraft, ozonesonde soundings from six Canadian stations, global grid point values of Nimbus 7 TOMS ozone, and selected radiosonde soundings from stations in the region of the experiment. Theory teams provided calculations of potential vorticity, temperature, geopotential, horizontal winds, parcel back trajectories, and concentrations of short lived species along the aircraft flight tracks; and northern hemispheric analyses of potential vorticity, temperature, geopotential, horizontal winds, and radiative heating rates. All files within this release are standard ASCII files with variable length records terminated by a carriage return line feed pair (<CR><LF>, ASCII decimal values 13 and 10). Therefore, MS-DOS users should be able to read them as they are, but UNIX and MAC users will have to strip off either the <CR> or the <LF> from each line to convert them to standard UNIX or MAC files. Commercially available software, such as dos2unix and Apple File Exchange, exists to convert MS-DOS files to both UNIX and MAC files. VMS users can define the files to have STREAM record formats. In general, the file naming convention uses a two-character prefix to identify the measurement, followed by a six digit number (yymmdd) giving the year, month, and day (UT) of the flight, balloon launch, or model result. To identify the measurement platform, a three character extension of EA1, DA1, Bhh, or Ghh is used to denote the data is from the ER-2, DC-8, balloon, or grid point model output (hh denotes the UT hour of balloon launch or model result). Exceptions to this convention are the SFyymmdd.Enn files which use the extensions E00, E01, E05, E30 to denote aerosol loading factors; the TOMS data files which have the extensions N7; and the chemical modelling result MA911006.H00. The NASA ER-2 and DC-8 aircraft and balloons were employed to carry a suite of instruments into the lower stratosphere. Many of these were used in the 1989 AASE-I. New instruments included a gas chromatograph to measure CFC-11, a diode laser spectrometer to measure CH4, N2O, and HCL, and spectrometers to measure in situ CO, CH4, N2O, and CO2. The ER-2 was deployed from Ames Research Center, California (37N, 122W), to Fairbanks, Alaska (65N, 147W) in October 1991, so that air could be observed at the highest possible latitudes before it was incorporated into the forming polar vortex. In November 1991, the ER-2 was moved to Bangor, Maine (45N, 69W) where it would have a high probability of encountering air in the arctic vortex, but could still have acceptable weather for aircraft operations. The ER-2 missions involved flights to Greenland, 20N, 25N, 55N, 65N, 70N, 85N, and 90N. The DC-8 missions involved flights to Tahiti, Norway, Wyoming, 15N, 20N, 65N, and 90N. On March 11, 1992, a balloon launched from Greenland (67.0N, 50.6W) carried instruments to measure O3, NO, and CLO. The objective of the balloon launch was to extend the aircraft measurements to higher latitudes. The Canadian Ozone Experiment (CANOZE-7) launched balloons from December 1991 to March 1992 from Alert, Canada (82N, 62W). The nitric acid measurements made from these balloons are also reported here. The AASE-II data set provides the first seasonal perspective on polar ozone chemistry in the northern hemisphere. It also provides the first detailed investigations of the chemistry occurring on volcanic sulfuric acid aerosols. The data show clearly the important counterbalance between dynamical resupply of ozone in the arctic vortex and ongoing chemical destruction. The aircraft measurements also show the important role of nitrogen oxides, produced by nitric acid photolysis, in destroying CLO after temperatures become too high for polar stratospheric clouds to form. These results highlight the fact that large ozone losses in the arctic spring require either extensive denitrification of the vortex, which could occur if temperatures fell below that at which ice clouds form, or long lasting polar stratospheric clouds, that will occur if temperatures remain low enough for nitric acid to condense for extended periods of time. Neither extremely low temperatures, with extensive denitrification, nor a prolonged period of low temperatures occurred in 1992. Therefore, although very high levels of CLO were present in the arctic vortex in January 1992, the ozone loss that occurred was limited by the rapid decline of CLO in February. Other winters, such as 1992-1993, which had much more persistent low temperatures, may have conditions more conducive to significant ozone loss. It is also clear from the AASE-II data set that volcanic aerosols do significantly perturb stratospheric chemistry. However, some of the reactions are saturated at aerosol surface areas only slightly greater that ambient, and others depend strongly on temperature. Therefore, an assessment of the impact of the Pinatubo eruption on global ozone requires careful treatment of the entire thermal, dynamical, aerosol and chemical evolution of the stratosphere.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, light detection and ranging, arctic, sam-ii, halocarbons and halogens, guinea, nasa er-2, atmospheric pressure measurements, aerosol, cloud particle sizer, cfc-11, humidity, ground stations, douglas dc-8, bro, aase-ii, air quality, nitric oxide, reactive nitrogen, africa, mali, nitrogen compounds, clo, hydrogen chloride, airborne arctic stratospheric expedition-ii, atmospheric water vapor, volcanic sulfuric acid aerosols, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, gas chromatographs, polar ozone chemistry, continent, aerosol particle properties, algeria, dc-8, nitrous oxide, co2, sun photometers, reactive nitrogen oxides, air temperature, fourier transform spectrometers, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, equatorial, congo, geopotential height, particulate matter, toms, europe, volcanic gases, polar, ftir spectrometer, ozonesondes, temperature profilers, benin, nigeria, chad, oxygen compounds, stratospheric chemistry, n2o, co, libya, atmospheric pressure, infrared radiometers, horizontal winds, gabon, solid earth, total ozone mapping spectrometer, atmospheric temperature, stratospheric aerosol measurement ii, niger, photometers, ghana, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, nimbus-7, polar stratospheric clouds, north america, grid data, interferometers, potential vorticity, mark iv interferometer, radiometers, trace gases, trace species, o3, parcel back trajectories, vertical profiles, carbon monoxide, meteorological measurement system, senegal, ocean, canada, water vapor, chlorofluorocarbons, spectrometers, methane, model data, profilers, geographic region, morocco, altitude, no, aerosols, balloons, clouds, troposphere, ozone, mms, united states of america, radiative heating rates, radiosondes, lidar, cloud condensation nuclei, aerosol extinction, stratosphere, vertical location, carbon dioxide, cd-rom, sulfate particles, bromine monoxide, vorticity, cloud types, earth science, volcanoes, usa, nasa, potential temperature, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, upper air, nasa earth resources-2, water vapor profiles, hygrometers, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Endalen. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 19.7m deep borehole was drilled in Endalen. Stratigraphy: 0-1.5m: Diamicton. High fraction of fine material and scattered blocks. 1.5-2m: Coarser material. Ice lenses (10-20cm). 2-4m: Diamicton with blocks and finer material (silt clay). Some ice lenses (3-4cm thick) 4-5m: Diamicton. Drier than above from 4.5m. 5-6m: Transition to bedrock. Crushed zone 6-20m: Bedrock. Solid from 7.7m.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, endalen, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: J. Thematic Maps, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: A thematic map shows the spatial distribution of one or more specific data themes for standard geographic areas. Thematic maps showing 2001 Census data can be viewed on the Internet (www.statcan.ca) and downloaded for free (as PDF files). The following maps of Canada are available: 100 Years of Change in Population Settlement (Animated file; Colour; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Change, 1996 - 2001 by Provinces and Territories (3D; Colour; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Change, 1996 - 2001 by Provinces and Territories (3D; Black and white; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Change, 1996 - 2001 by 2001 Census Division and Population Ecumene (Colour; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Change, 1996 - 2001 by 2001 Census Division and Population Ecumene (Black and white; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Density 2001, by Dissemination Area (Colour; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Population Density 2001, by Dissemination Area (Black and white; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) Statistical Area Classification, 2001 (Colour; map dimensions: 91.4 x 76.2 cm, 36 x 30 inches) Statistical Area Classification, 2001 (Colour; map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) In addition, thematic maps showing Population Change (1996 - 2001) by 2001 Census Tracts, for all census metropolitan areas are available. The maps are in colour and black and white (map dimensions: 21.6 x 27.9 cm, 8.5 x 11 inches) for the following census metropolitan areas (CMAs): Abbotsford, B.C. London, Ont. St. Catharines - Niagara, Ont. Calgary, Alta. Montr?al, Que. St. John's, Nfld.Lab. Chicoutimi - Jonqui?re, Que. Oshawa, Ont. Thunder Bay, Ont. Edmonton, Alta. Ottawa - Hull, Ont. Toronto, Ont. Greater Sudbury, Ont. Qu?bec, Que. Trois-Rivi?res, Que. Halifax, N.S. Regina, Sask. Vancouver, B.C. Hamilton, Ont. Saint John, N.B. Victoria, B.C. Kingston, Ont. Saskatoon, Sask. Windsor, Ont. Kitchener, Ont. Sherbrooke, Que. Winnipeg, Man. Catalogue number for Internet is: 92F0173XIE ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteA thematic map shows the spatial distribution of one or more specific data themes for standard geographic areas. Maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: lambertc Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, thematic maps, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: MarBEF Publication Series data (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: These data are published in papers held within the MarBEF Publication Series. The MarBEF Data Management team has been screening these papers and provides the distribution data via EurOBIS. [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: continent, ecological dynamics, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, western asia, obis, mediterranean sea, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, biodiversity functions, europe, baltic sea, polar, census of marine life, biodiversity, biogeography, coml, svalbard and jan mayen, community dynamics, asia, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, ocean, north sea, atlantic ocean, geographic region, black sea, 
TITLE: North American Bird Banding Retrieval Files. ABSTRACT: Purpose: Banding and encounter data are gathered and filed for the purpose of facilitating migratory bird research in North America. Waterfowl banding and encounter data are used by federal, state and provincial wildlife agencies in combination with other data sets, to help set federal hunting regulations. In addition, many states and provinces use banding and encounter data as a component of both game and nongame studies. Both banding and encounter data can be combined with other data for work on bird distribution, migration, survival, mortality, population size, and other demographic parameters. Abstract: The Banding Retrieval File contains summarized records for data through the last full calendar year for all game birds banded since 1908, and for all nongame birds banded since 1954. A summary record includes all birds of the same species, age and sex, with the same status and additional information codes, banded under the same permit number, within the same region and 10-minute block of latitude and longitude, during the same month and 5-day banding period, the same band type, and band number prefix. Supplementary Information: The Banding Retrieval File contains over 9 million records representing over 50 million birds processed through August 1995. The file increases by approximately 1.2 million birds each year. Data are displayed in the following order: species number, region, year, permit, month, day code, status and additional information, age, sex, latitude, longitude, direction code, prefix and part of band suffix, total number of birds. A file format is included with all disks to assist the user in separating the fields. Listings have the fields separated and identified. The numerical codes in the data can be translated with the aid of the Bird Banding Manual, vol. 1 part 5 (described in the section 1.15 Cross Reference). Status code in the first column indicates that something was done to the bird upon recapture that changed the original status. Geographic Description: Includes range of North American species. Range includes breeding, wintering and migration locations. Wintering ranges can include South America, Africa, Europe. Breeding can occur as far north as the Arctic. However, the species being studied are North American species. http:  www.pwrc.usgs.gov bbl . KEYWORD: tagging, biological classification, ecological dynamics, arctic, range, range changes, global, birds, migratory rates, routes, breeding range, brd, polar, north american species, earth science, banding, ceos, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, marking, species, population interactions, migration, geographic region, winter range, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Biochemical characterization of the antioxidant system in the scallop Adamussium colbecki, a sentinel organism for monitoring the antarctic environment.. ABSTRACT: The scallop Adamussium colbecki can be profitably used for monitoring Antarctic coast environments but its utility would be increased if chemical analysis of pollutants were integrated with data on their biological effects. Since oxidative stress is a common pathway of toxicity induced by xenobiotics, a biochemical characterization was carried out on the antioxidant system of this species and baseline data collected for future assessment of the anthropogenic impact in this remote area. The digestive gland and gills were investigated for the levels of glutathione and the activity of several glutathione-dependent and antioxidant enzymes: glutathione reductase, glyoxalase I, glyoxalase II, glutathione S-transferases, Se-dependent and Se-independent glutathione peroxidases, catalase, superoxide dismutase. Moreover, the Total Oxyradical Scavenging Capacity (TOSC) against three potent oxidants was also measured in the microsomal and cytosolic fraction of the digestive gland. The dataset also contain measurements of the seasonal variations of the susceptibility to oxidative stress during the spring and summer months.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, antioxidants, biomarkers, arctic, earth science, ceos, feed products, feed contamination and toxicology, biosphere, antarctica, contamination, agriculture, ecology, superoxide dismutase, amd, it, gerlache inlet, amd, total oxyradical scavenging capacity (tosc), aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, coastal habitat, 
TITLE: Coring Data from Drained Thaw-Lake Basins of the Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set includes measurements and observations taken from drained thaw-lake basin (DTLB) cores retrieved from Barrow and Atqasuk, Alaska in April and August of 2001 through 2003. Investigators selected young, medium, old, and ancient DTLBs to collect data from by surveying their vegetation. DTLBs become sites for the accumulation of organic carbon as peat deposits. With this research, investigators aimed to estimate the amount of carbon sequestered in drained basins, supplement current knowledge of the basic processes governing these important elements of the northern Alaskan landscape, and provide new information on landscape-scale response to climate change. Data files in Microsoft Excel format and documentation in Microsoft Word format are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: soil descriptions, soil moisture, water content, soil aluminum, arctic, usa, noaa, soil organic nitrogen content, soil depth, north america, carbon, soil bulk density, alaska, mass spectrometers, textural class, soil cations, soil classification, ground-based observations, soils data, soil horizons, profile, arctic soils, vegetation cover, soil horizons, office of polar programs, national science foundation, soil organic carbon content, soil core, biosphere, frozen soil, arcss143, carbon density, frozen ground, organic matter, geographic region, opp-0240338, nsf, opp, munsell soil color, continent, pollen, cation exchange capacity, arctic coastal plain, vegetation, organic layer thickness, usa, nsf, base saturation, united states of america, ground ice, visual observations, soils, total organic carbon, polar, soil texture, soil moisture, nitrogen, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, soil color, aluminum saturation, ice content, total organic nitrogen, soil ph, soil water content, drained thaw-lake basin, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Global Multi-Resolution Topography WMS Service. ABSTRACT: The WMS service that provides the Global Multi-Resolution Topography (GMRT). GMRT synthesis is a continuously-updated compilation of seafloor topography derived from multibeam bathymetry data. The synthesis began as the Ridge Multibeam Synthesis, was expanded to include multibeam bathymetry data from the Southern Ocean and now includes other bathymetry from throughout the global and coastal oceans. It is maintained as a multi-resolution gridded digital elevation model of seafloor bathymetry to ~100 m spatial resolution, and is merged with ~100 m resolution land topography data from the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM). In the oceans, multibeam data are merged with lower-resolution compilations including satellite predicted bathymetry (Smith & Sandwell), the International Bathymetric Chart of the Arctic Ocean (IBCAO), and the SCAR Subglacial Topographic Model of the Antarctic (BEDMAP).. KEYWORD: image, shuttle radar topography mission, earth science, ceos, global, srtm, bathymetry, seafloor topography, gcmd mapserver, ships, water depth, r, v nathaniel b. palmer, open geospatial consortium, web map service, bathymetry, gmrt, ogc, wms, oceans, geographic region, r, v nbp, 
TITLE: Eolian Features in Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet listing localities in northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland with features or deposits formed by the wind from the last glacial maximum to the present day. Features are directly dated by radiocarbon and other numerical methods. Also listed are features for which ages have been inferred stratigraphically, including dunes, leoss, and sand. Wind direction is also available.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Seismic reflection and refraction surveys in Arctic waters (project ARCTIC'91). ABSTRACT: The seismic reflection survey was carried out in order: a) obtain a profile across the Eurasia Basin for mapping the first order sediment distribution and its seismic stratigraphy above oceanic crust of known age, b) investigate the sediment cover and the crustal structure of the Lomonosov Ridge to elucidate its subsidence history, c) determine the extent of a sediment cover and the nature of basement on the marginal plateaus Morris Jesup and Yermak d) obtain further data on the thickness of the oceanic crust to evaluate any dependence of crustal thickness at very slow spreading mid ocean ridges. Shot interval was 25 m to 30 m for reflection and 70 m to 150 m for the refraction seismic data. The following instruments were used: 100 m and 500 m (24 channel) long streamers, 6 l and 24 l airgun array., sonobuoys, 6-channel Reftek station with 3 component seismeters, geophone arrays and 2 hydrophones. The geographical coverage is as follows: - 200 km of single-channel and 1500 km of multi-channel seismic reflection data covering the Amundsen Basin, the Lomonosov Ridge, the Gakkel Ridge, the Morris Jesup Rise, the Nansen Basin and the Yermak Plateau. - 60 km of seismic refraction data on Lomonosov Ridge and Gakkel Ridge. Data are available on request, but with special arrangement.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, idn_node esrin, dlr, nansen basin, seismic traveltimes, germany, dlr, seismology, arctic, sea floor, seismic, jesup rise, sonobuoys, structure of the oceanic lithosphere of the arctic ocean, seismic profile, seismic reflection survey, airgun arrays, gakkel ridge, stratigraphic sequence, long streamers, tectonics, marine sediments, polar, vertical location, lomonosow ridge, arctic'91, earth science, ceos, geophones, sediment, crust, bathymetry, seafloor topography, bedrock lithology, seismic velocities, ships, eurasia basin, ocean, hydrophones, seismometers, ocean plateaus, ridges, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, yermak plateau, sediments, amundsen basin, seismic refraction survey, 
TITLE: Izembek National Wildlife Refuge Landcover and Topography; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: The digital data sets contain land cover classifications for the Izembek National Wildlife Refuge derived from Landsat MSS data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 basis. Spatial referencing is by 50-meter grid cells. The data source is Landsat MSS data (no DEM data). There are 7 records in the data set. The amount of storage required varies by storage medium and selected area; file structure is sequential. Data are available on 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250, unlabeled, unblocked, BCD, fixed record length and listings. Subsets and custom formats are available. Center latitude and longitude coordinate of this study area is 5520' north and 163 west; final report is available. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: continent, visible imagery, alpine, tundra, landcover, arctic, infrared imagery, aedd, geology, mss, dem, izembek, field geology, united states of america, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, land, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, satellite, land cover, wildlife, elevation, polar, infrared wavelengths, blm, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: RADARSAT Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada, Lambert Conformal Conic, 1000 Metres. ABSTRACT: The Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS), and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) have collaborated with contributions from RADARSAT International (RSI), to create an ortho-rectified RADARSAT-1 mosaic of Canada. Using CSA's RADARSAT data archive, ScanSAR Narrow B descending mode data were selected. The majority of the data, south of 60 degrees was acquired during the growing seasons of 1998 and 1999. The remaining data were collected during the winters of 1998 and 1999. A digital national mosaic has been produced at a 1000m pixel spacing, in a Lambert Conformal Conic (LCC) projection. That data set is available here. Georeference Units : LCC E008 Projection : Lambert Conformal Conic Datum - Ellipsoid : NAD 83 - GRS 1980 Upper Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 10500000.000 N Upper Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 10500000.000 N Image Centre : 250000.000 E 8100000.000 N Lower Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 5700000.000 N Lower Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 5700000.000 N Pixel Size : 1000.000 E 1000.000 N Upper Left Corner : 177d17'32.31" W Lon 66d54'22.82" N Lat Upper Right Corner : 9d58'39.57" W Lon 62d25'50.45" N Lat Image Centre: 89d56'43.00" W Lon 62d46'47.18" N Lat Lower Left Corner: 122d54'49.00" W Lon 36d12'53.87" N Lat Lower Right Corner: 62d32'49.65" W Lon 34d18'05.61" N Lat True origin : 95d00'00.0000"W 0d00'00.0000"N 1st std parallel : 49d00'00.0000"N 2nd std parallel : 77d00'00.0000"NThe development of the RADARSAT-1 Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada was initiated to provide a unique synoptic view of Canada using data acquired from Canada's first Earth Observation Satellite, launched in November of 1995. It celebrates the fact that RADARSAT-1 has reached and passed its five year design life in orbit. The satellite continues to deliver imagery that has been proven effective in a wide range of applications including ice reconnaissance, disaster management, oceanography and agriculture. This digital product has been developed at a number of scales (technically pixel spacing) to allow a variety of users the ability to download and use this data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: GRS80 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, satellite imagery, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, mosaic, spectral, engineering, radarsat-1, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, radar, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Data of the concentration of chlorophyll a at Kingsbay (Kongsfjorden), Arctic in 2008. ABSTRACT: 1L water samples were filtered with the Whatman GF F filter. The phytoplankton cells on the filters were extracted with 90% acetone for 24h, then the extracting liquid was determined with Turner Designs Fluorometer, Model 10. The chlorophyll a concentrations were analyzed with the fluorescence method (Parsons et al., 1984).. KEYWORD: polar, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, chla, ocean, laboratory, oceans, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Marine Molluscs from Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet with radiocarbon dates on more than 4200 marine molluscs from northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland. Both dated taxa and associated taxa are listed and classified into faunal paleoenvironmental zones ranging from warm temperate (Virginian) to frigid (Arctic).This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, mollusks, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, macrofossils, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: 1:2000 Map of Antarctic Zhongshan Station in 2002. ABSTRACT: This is a 1:2000 Map of Antarctic Zhongshan Station in 2002 during CHINARE-18.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, field surveys, antarctica, zhongshan station, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Marine Mammals of Coastal Alaska Data (1976-1991): Sighting and Census (F127). ABSTRACT: NODC maintains data in three NODC Standard Format Marine Mammal Data Sets: Marine Mammal Sighting and Census (F127); Marine Mammal Specimens (F025); Marine Mammal Sighting 2 (F026). These data type formats are designed to support studies of biological populations and ecosystems that are subject to impact from oil and gas development, marine pollution and other environmental disturbances. Information on marine animal populations, activities, migratory routes and breeding locales are obtained from either surface ship or aircraft surveys. The Marine Mammal Sighting and Census (F127) data type contains data from field observations of marine mammals. Obtained from ship or aircraft surveys, the data are collected to provide information on population density and distribution, mammal behavior and activity, migratory routes and breeding locales. In addition to data on the survey track and observed environmental conditions (including ice conditions, if encountered), F127 data may contain data from each species sighted. Parameters reported may include group size; total number of individuals, adults (males and females), subadults and pups; and mammal activity. F127 contains data for 1979 - 1991.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, habitat, animals - individual - behavior, cop, animals - group - number in group, ecological dynamics, arctic, animals - individual - age, aedd, ice, usa, noaa, human activity, glare, animals - individual - stomach contents, noaa, north america, temperature - air, alaska, weather, animals - individual - counts, debris, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, glare - type, animals - individual - physical characteristics, visibility, wind speed, wind direction, mammal population, maps, charts, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, coastal alaska, alaska directory, coast, ships, nodc, mammals, water depth, ocean, animals - group - behavior, cloud cover, animal, geographic region, species identification - life stage, continent, animals - individual - dive times, landcover, ocseap, ice - characteristics, idn_node gsfc, nodc, marine, temperature - surface water, earth science information partners program, united states of america, mammal, animals - individual - relative position, glare-direction, coastal ocean program, coastal habitat, tide stage, water color, wildlife, polar, species identification - sex, ocean continental shelf environmental assessment project, pacific ocean, aircraft, earth science, ceos, ice - deformation, environment, wildlife distribution, taxonomic code, sea state, species, population interactions, endangered species, cloud type, ice - type, esip, animals - individual - marks or tags, animals - individual - cause of death, ice - coverage, 
TITLE: Digital Archive of Canadian Climatological Data. ABSTRACT: This archive covers the entire country. It consists of hourly, daily and monthly climatological records in a standard record format for all stations in the observing network. Daily records date from 1850, while hourly records date from 1953. The format is organized according to meteorological elements with each record relating to a specific station. The Climate Station Catalogue is used to provide a history of observing programs by station. Most of the resulting data are archived in digital form.This data is currently applied in climatological, environmental and engineering research. The data coverage varies spatially and temporally with the number and distribution of stations in the MSC observing network. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Observing station, time and element. Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, precipitation amount, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, marine weather, nunavut, northwest territories, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, daily data, surface winds, digital data, polar, ocean winds, surface pressure, surface, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, climate, quebec, alberta, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, climatology, upper air, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Data of isolation and identification of Actinobacteria from rhizospheric soil collected from the Arctic Yellow River Station in 2007. ABSTRACT: Using spread-plate technique, actinobacterial strains were isolated from rhizospheric soil of 7 plants collected in the Arctic Yellow River Station, New Alesund, Svalbard (Ny-Alesund, the Arctic). 53 actinobacteria were indentified by the analysis of ARDRA and 16S rDNA sequences and were shown to represent strains from 8 genera: Streptomyces and Arthrobacter which is predominant and rare actinobacteria Rhodococcus, Saccharothrix, Rathayibacter, Micrococcus, Nocardia, Kribbella.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, field surveys, arctic, rhizosphere, actinobacteria, 16s rdna, microfauna, agriculture, bacteria, archaea, ocean, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, geographic region, soils, 
TITLE: Frontier Geological and Geophysical Operations. ABSTRACT: This data set contains information on the location of geophysical surveys conducted in the Frontier areas regulated by the National Energy Board for which reports and data are no longer privileged. The information is supplied by industry pursuant to the Canada Oil and Gas Operations Act and the Canada Oil and Gas Geophysical Operations Regulations. Associated information available may include index maps, shot point locations, seismic sections and profiles, and velocity analysis. The information is provided publicly, pursuant to the Canada Petroleum Resources Act in order to promote the safety of workers, protection of the environment, conservation of the hydrocarbon resources and to increase scientific knowledge of and efficient utilization of hydrocarbon resources. The principle uses are expected to be assessing the potential of petroleum resources, the planning of hydrocarbon exploration programs and production operations and scientific research of geological stratigraphy and tectonics. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, offshore west coast, oil, northern hemisphere, north america, gas, gulf of st. lawrence, petroleum, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, rocks, minerals, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 1.25 km EASE-Grid Composites. ABSTRACT: The AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 1.25 km EASE-Grid Composites are a collection of products for both poles, consisting of twice-daily gridded and calibrated satellite channel data and derived parameters. Data include five Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) channels, clear sky surface broadband albedo and skin temperature, solar zenith angle, satellite elevation angle, sun-satellite relative azimuth angle, surface type mask, cloud mask, orbit mask, time of acquisition, and ice motion vectors. Data are composited onto two grids per day based on common local solar times and scan angle. Reduced-resolution data (25 km) derived from the 1.25 km data are available to assist users in selecting these data. AVHRR local area coverage (LAC) and High Resolution Picture Transmission (HRPT) level 1b data are used to generate the Polar Pathfinder products at grid spacings of 1.25 km. AVHRR Polar Pathfinder data extend poleward from 48.4 degrees north and 53.2 degrees south latitudes, from August 1993 through December 1998 for the Northern Hemisphere, and from April 1992 through January 1996 for the Southern Hemisphere. Data are in 1-byte and 2-byte integer grid format. Ice motion vectors are in ASCII text format. Data are available on 8-mm tape or by ftp. Distribution formats available: North: 104 MB (2-byte), 52 MB (1-byte), 8 MB (ice motion) South: 82 MB (2-byte), 41 MB (1-byte), 6.3 MB (ice motion). <h2 class='newsdate'>Please note that the machine on which these AVHRR data are processed has reached its life expectancy and will no longer be available as of 02 June 2008 until further notice.< h2>. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, surface radiative properties, arctic, visible radiance, usa, noaa, noaa, land surface temperature, thermal properties, noaa-14, noaa-12, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, albedo, thermal infrared, infrared wavelengths, pathfinder, remote sensing, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, skin temperature, brightness temperature, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, land temperature, amd, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, atmospheric radiation, continent, clouds, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, platform characteristics, satellite, snow, ice, avhrr, antarctic, radiance, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, viewing geometry, nasa, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, esip, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Old Auroral Station. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 10m deep borehole was drilled close to the Old Auroral Station in Adventdalen. Drilled in loess deposit. Stratigraphy: 0-1.2m: sand with some gravel 1.2-3m: sand silt clay 3-4m: clean ice (ice wedge or thick ice lens?) 4-6m: Mainly clay silt 6-10m: clay silt, possibly some sand. Layered. Very low resistance during drilling. Salinity at 10m is 11.8%. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, adventdalen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Dielectric profiling (DEP) data from Mount Moulton blue ice area. ABSTRACT: Electronator data from Mount Moulton blue ice area along approximately 300 m long lone parallel to existing horizontal ice core.. KEYWORD: continent, cenozoic, arctic, horizontal ice core, paleoclimate, ablation zones, accumulation zones, amd, fi, mount moulton, quaternary, electronators, paleo stop date present, blue ice, polar, electrical properties, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, gps, paleo start date 400000 ybp, antarctica, global positioning system, glaciers, ice sheets, amd, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: North Atlantic Mollusc Isotopes. ABSTRACT: I. "Acal2" is calibration data for same period as stable isotope records and includes (from L to R) : 1) the date (based on 8-month (May-Dec) growth year and centered at mid-month); 2) mean monthly T C (based on ~daily BT records w  linear interpolated gaps); 3) mean monthly Salinity (based on ~weekly BS records w  linear interpolated gaps); 4) "monthly" shell d18O data (based on linear seasonal shell growth assumption); 5) estimated monthly d18O-water based on salinity and Fairbanks' [1982] relationship for Gulf of Maine; 6) "monthly" shell d18O minus est. monthly d18O-water. II. "Tmon" are all the mean monthly T & S records for 1956-1971 from the Nantucket Lightship and includes: 1) date (centered at mid-month); 2) mean monthly BT C (based on ~daily BT records w  linear interpolated gaps except where gaps are too large (>1or 2 months); 3) mean monthly BS (based on ~weekly BS records w  linear interpolated gaps except where gaps are too large (>1or 2 months). III. "sampall" are raw shell d18O records and includes: 1) shell surface position (cm); 2) raw shell d18O; and 3) sequential sample # (214 out of 219 original samples w 5 samples lost during analysis).. KEYWORD: paleoclimate reconstructions, past global changes, igbp, paleo start date 1956, cenozoic, holocene, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, paleo stop date 1968, phanerozoic, isotope, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, pages, ocean, ocean, lake records, isotopes, mollusc, quaternary, temperature, air temperature reconstruction, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: European Arctic Stratospheric Ozone Experiment (EASOE). ABSTRACT: he European Arctic Stratospheric Ozone Experiment (EASOE) was undertaken in the northern winter of 1991-92 to study the processes in the Arctic which lead to ozone destruction and their connection with reduced ozone at northern mid-latitudes. The data from the campaign has been made available on CD-ROM by the Norwegian Institude for Air Research (NILU). The CDs are held at the BADC. This two CD-ROM set contains measurements made from 16 ground stations throughout Europe, flights made by the three aircraft involved in the campaign, numerous stratospheric balloons launched from Kiruna in northern Sweden and from ozonesondes from 22 European stations. In addition data from the total ozone monitoring network and from the TOMS and TOVS satellite instruments are included. This data is complemented by meteorological data from the European Centre for Medium-range Weather Forecasts and from the UK Met. Office. The parameters measured include concentrations of ozone and the members of the chlorine and nitrogen families which are involved in the photochemical destruction of ozone, aerosol and PSC extinctions and meteorological parameters used to study transport into and out of the polar vortex. The EASOE campaign coincided with the NASA AASE-II aircraft campaign and this dataset is also available from the BADC. [Extracted from the EASOE home Page]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, total ozone mapping spectrometer, light detection and ranging, arctic, chlorine dioxide, halocarbons and halogens, earth probe-toms, nasa er-2, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, polar stratospheric clouds, european arctic and stratospheric ozone experiment, humidity, ground stations, air quality, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, chlorofluorocarbons, spectrometers, spectrophotometers, methane, geographic region, tiros operational vertical sounder, dobson spectrophotometers, continent, nitrous oxide, balloons, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, ozone, tovs, easoe, toms, grab samplers, lidar, europe, stratosphere, hydroflouric acid, vertical location, polar, ozonesondes, ftir spectrometer, bromine monoxide, ep-toms, fixed observation stations, earth science, oxygen compounds, usa, nasa, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, nasa earth resources-2, hygrometers, hydrochloric acid, trace elements, trace metals, 
TITLE: Fluxgate Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctic,Year 2002. ABSTRACT: The Fluxgate magnetometer is to measure relative geomagnetic variations at 3 dimensions, i.e., x, y and z components.The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetometers, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, geomagnetism, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Data set of XBT in the 7th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1990 1991. ABSTRACT: From December of 1990 to March of 1990, we surveyed the ocean XBT in the cruise of the 6th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China as a supplement to the krill research programme.The levels include:0,10,20,30,50,75,100,125,150,200,250,300,400 and 500m. BMT is Beijing Mean Time.This data set include:date(BMT),latitude,longitude,temperature-at-indicated-depth(Degree Celsius).. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, xbt, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, global ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Freeze-Thaw Earth System Data Record. ABSTRACT: NASA's Freeze Thaw Earth System Data Record (FT-ESDR) Web Interface is a NASA MEaSUREs (Making Earth System Data Records for Use in Research Environments) funded effort to provide a consistent long-term global data record of land surface freeze thaw (FT) state dynamics for all vegetated regions where low temperatures are a major constraint to ecosystem processes. The FT measurement is derived from temporal change classification of global satellite microwave remote sensing time series, including passive microwave radiometry from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer for EOS (AMSR-E), and radar scatterometry from SeaWinds-on-QuikSCAT. The ecological significance and basis of the FT measurement from satellite microwave remote sensing is summarized in the literature (e.g., see "Relevant Publications" section below). The FT-ESDR is designed to: 1) distinguish FT heterogeneity in accordance with mesoscale climate and landscape topographic features; 2) establish biophysical linkages between FT processes and vegetation productivity, respiration and associated land-atmosphere carbon exchange; 3) distinguish FT dynamics in accordance with episodic weather events, annual anomalies, periodic climate cycles and long-term climate change trajectories." [Summary provided by the University of Montana.]. KEYWORD: respiration rate, ecological dynamics, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, vegetation, global, earth system data record, making earth science data records for use in research environments, usa, nsf, measures, freeze, earth science information partners program, carbon, human dimensions, thaw, snow, ice, amsr-e, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, land surface, carbon exchange, climate, usa, nasa, biosphere, ssm, i, quikscat, ecosystem functions, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, quick recovery scatterometer, frozen ground, esip, geographic region, seawinds, land use classes, landscape, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: GLDAS Mosaic Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 1.0 x 1.0 degree Subsetted V001 (GLDAS_MOS10SUBP_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Mosaic model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Mosaic model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 001 Surface pressure Pa 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 085 Average layer soil temperature K 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^2 111 Net shortwave radiation W m^2 112 Net longwave radiation W m^2 121 Latent heat flux W m^2 122 Sensible heat flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average surface temperature K 155 Ground heat flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 3 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) and Soil Temperature (PDS 085) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUVs) Data from Coastal Ocean Observation Lab at Rutgers University. ABSTRACT: The Coastal Ocean Observation Lab at Rutgers University Institute of Marine & Coastal Sciences (IMCS) and Webb Research Corporation are currently focusing on the development and deployment of a fleet of gliders to continuously patrol the coastal oceans. The instruments, combined with the mobility and long-range communication capabilities of the glider, are providing continuous, near real time information on ocean physics and biology. Beginning in November 2003, a single glider has been deployed each month with the task of patrolling the New Jersey Shelf Observing Systems ENDURANCE LINE. The Endurance Line begins about ~5km southwest of the Rutgers University Marine Field Station and runs offshore to the continental shelf break, approximately 120 km. Mission durations range from 2 - 4 weeks, depending on the instrument package, and have allowed the COOL lab to begin building a historical database on the physics and biology of the New Jersey Shelf.. KEYWORD: salinity, density, absorption, gliders, earth science, seaglider, usa, nasa, shelf, scattering, ocean, autonomous underwater vehicles, oceans, salinity, density, ocean optics, atlantic ocean, satellite, auvs, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night V001. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 3 night product (MOD29P1N1) contains the following fields: Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, and Sea Ice by IST. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Conductivity-Temperature-Depth (CTD) data from the 9th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China. ABSTRACT: Thirty-eight CTD stations were taken during the cruise to the Southern Ocean in November, 1990 to April, 1993. Casts were made to 1000m or to near the bottom if shallower. In situ salinity, temperature and sigma-T are tabulated for standard depths, and shown graphically.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, salinity, southern ocean, density, arctic, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, water depth, conductivity, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Hindcast Winds for Severe Storms in the Beaufort Sea, Canada. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes hindcast winds in the Beaufort Sea for 35 severe wind and wave producing storms. Winds are given on a 1 degree Latitude by 3 degree Longitude grid from 68 - 76 N and 120 - 162 W for selected severe storms from 1957 to 1987. This data is currently applied in climatological, environmental and engineering research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coodinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, none, sea surface, storm surge, north america, ocean waves, surface winds, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, atmospheric phenomena, earth science, ceos, climate, beaufort sea, atmospheric winds, coastal processes, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, wind waves, geographic region, storms, 
TITLE: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2003. ABSTRACT: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager is to monitor auroral displays at certain wavelength at nearly 180 degrees filed of view. The data is digitized images recorded on DVD-R with two copies; one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between these two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, ccd imager, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Monthly Climatology Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Ozone data at the Zhongshan station, Antarctica during the 21st CHINARE in 2004. ABSTRACT: Data recorded by ozone spectroapparatus in ZhongShan station.Those data include ozone and S02 data by BREWER exploration, which happened at noon time. At that time the radiation between the scope was 290-325nm295-300nm300-305nm305-310nm310-315nm315-320nm320-325nm, 300.5nm324nmW m2. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, sulfur dioxide, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, omi, antarctica, ozone, atmospheric chemistry, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, sulfur compounds, south pole, ozone monitoring instrument, 
TITLE: Harvard Forest AmeriFlux Hourly Reactive Trace Gas Measurements: 1990-1996, at CDIAC. ABSTRACT: The Harvard Forest environmental measurement site is part of the AmeriFlux network of field research projects quantifying the exchange of carbon dioxide between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. The Harvard Forest AmeriFlux reactive trace gas database contains approximately 62,000 hourly reactive trace gas profiles (CO, O3, NO2, and NOy) from 1990-1996. CDIAC re-processed the data the data to conform to naming conventions and data reporting standards agreed to be the AmeriFlux Science Team. The files contain timestamps relative to January 1990 to facilitate future integration and synthesis of data across the entire AmeriFlux network. Data from the Harvard Forest Ameriflux site is available directly from CDIAC at: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov programs ameriflux " More information on the Harvard Forest Environmental Site is available from: "http:  www-as.harvard.edu chemistry hf index.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, chemiluminescence, ozone, total nitrogen oxide, gas correlation filters, nitrogen dioxide, no2, northern hemisphere, united states of america, north america, molecular nitrogen, massachusetts, noy, ground stations, reactive trace gases, ground-based observations, carbon dioxide, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, o3, earth science, carbon monoxide, oxygen compounds, harvard forest, usa, nasa, co, gosic, gcos, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, ameriflux, gosic, geographic region, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Vestfonna Ablation Data from May-August 2008 (Germany). ABSTRACT: Data describe measured snow melt ablation at a stake farm consisting of 24 ablation stakes (6 on De Geerfonna, 15 on the northwestern slope of Vestfonna, 3 on Ahlmann Summit).. KEYWORD: polar, kinnvika, snow melt, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ablation zones, accumulation zones, glaciers, ice sheets, ipy, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ocean, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, snow, ice, 
TITLE: Glaciologic expedition "Svalbard 2001". ABSTRACT: In English: The monitoring station was settled to the exit of the fluvial canyon that drain the Austrelovernbren glacier. By means of multi-parametric probes, water level, conductivity, and water temperature in the river was measured to intervals of 5 minutes. Likewise, it was established the seating station to measure the speed in passing and the water river circulation flow, to a rhythm of twice a day. Thanks to the values taken, by means of the corresponding adjustment curve, the flows drains continuously. 300 measurements were obtained of tectoglifos -permanent deformation traces- in the ice. With them was applied the Method of Prediction of Main Underground Draught Addresses, obtaining the main addresses of endoglacier drain. En Espaol: A la salida del caon fluvial que dran el glaciar de Austrelovenbren se instalo la estacion de monitorizacion. En ella, mediante sondas multiparametricas se midieron a intervalos de cinco minutos, el nivel, la conductividad, y la temperatura del agua en ese rio. Asi mismo, se establecio la estacion de aforos para medir la velocidad de paso y el caudal de circulacion del agua del rio, a un ritmo de dos veces al dia. Con los valores recogidos se han podido obtener, mediante la correspondiente curva de ajuste, los caudales drenados de continuo. Se obtuvieron 300 medidas de tectoglifos -huellas de deformacion permanentes- en el hielo. Con ellas se aplico el Metodo de Prediccion de Direcciones Principales de Drenaje Subterraneo, obteniendo las direcciones principales de drenaje endoglaciar.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, ny alesund, arctic, es, arctic, ground water, water temperature, climatic change, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, ablation zones, accumulation zones, interglacier drainage, scandinavia, conductivity, water quality, water chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, glaciology, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, sounders, northern europe, glaciers, ice sheets, observatories, norway, drainage, geographic region, 
TITLE: Terrain and Vegetation of Toolik Lake, AK: Permanent Plots. ABSTRACT: This data set is a summary of environmental, soil, and vegetation information collected from 81 study plots at the Toolik Lake research site in northern Alaska. Data include site factors, soil classification, description, and physical and chemical properties, as well as plant species cover. Investigators examined typical and characteristic vegetation communities of the area around Toolik Lake.. KEYWORD: land management, opp9318530, biological classification, geomorphology, alpine, tundra, periglacial processes, plant communities, ecological dynamics, arctic, landscape ecology, usa, noaa, opp-9415554, arctic system science, topographic effects, peatlands, alaska, glacial landforms, processes, terrestrial hydrosphere, species dominance indices, ground-based observations, soil horizons, profile, marshes, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, magnesium, toolik lake, biosphere, watershed characteristics, opp9415554, seasonally frozen ground, opp-9214959, opp-9318530, topographical relief, frozen ground, organic matter, deciduous vegetation, de-fg02-84er60242.a006, opp9214959, nsf, opp, contaminants, nsf, continent, soil taxonomy, arctic ecosystem, ground water, canopy characteristics, angiosperms (flowering plants), mosses, hornworts, liverworts, terrestrial habitat, cameras, usa, nsf, plants, aerial photographs, soils, polar, erosion, sedimentation, community dynamics, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, environmental impacts, weathering, landscape patterns, conifers, palustrine wetlands, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, fungi, soil salinity, soil sodicity, solid earth, nsidc, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, braun-blanquet, soil structure, evergreen vegetation, vegetation species, soil depth, snow cover, north america, soil bulk density, human dimensions, land cover, soil classification, r4d, gymnosperms, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, water channels, plant ecology, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, glaciers, ice sheets, landforms, surface water, community structure, arcss018, geographic region, arcss, active layer, potassium, snow melt, ph meters, vegetation, wetlands, soil consistence, releve, sorted table analysis, united states of america, riparian wetlands, snow, ice, vertical location, soil texture, calcium, nitrogen, soil plasticity, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, land surface, soil color, arcss, laii, flux, contours, adcc, tundra, vegetation communities, soil ph, rivers, streams, lichens, dominant species, drainage, plant characteristics, landscape, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: World Aeronautical Charts, Canada. ABSTRACT: World Aeronautical Charts (WAC) are used for flight planning and in-flight navigation by VFR pilots on extended cross country flight at medium to high altitudes and medium to high airspeed. Eighteen sheets provide complete coverage of Canada.Used by pilots for flight planning and visual flight reference. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Radio navigation aid indicators, Airspace Identifiers Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, terrain elevation, navigation aids, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, hypsography, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, communications, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, natural hazards, land surface, geodetics, gravity, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, prince edward island, infrastructure, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Standard Binned Product Suite. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color, photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) and Land Reflectance (LND) data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html SeaWiFS acquires approximately 15 pole-to-pole orbital swaths of data per day, and approximately 90% of the ocean surface is scanned every two days. Visible and near infrared raw radiance counts are collected (Level 1A data) and are converted to geophysical parameters (Level 2 data). Level 3 (9 km) data processing involves both temporal and spatial binning and utilizes Level 2 Global Area Coverage (GAC) (4 km) data as input. Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The ocean color parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] Other SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned Products: -SeaWiFS Level 3 PAR refers to false-colored images of Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) from the sun 400-700 nm. For additional information about the PAR algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf -SeaWiFS Land Reflectance (LND) refers to the images that depict land areas of the world in quasi-natural-color More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, surface radiative properties, arctic, eos, aerosol optical depth, thickness, land reflectance, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, par, ocean chemistry, aerosol radiance, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, global, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, pigments, southern ocean, reflectance, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Borehole Locations and Permafrost Depths, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: The methods utilized by the U.S. Geological Survey to measure subsurface temperatures have evolved considerably over the years. Although some of the early measurements were obtained using thermistor strings frozen into permafrost, the vast majority of the measurements were made in fluid-filled holes using a custom temperature sensor. A typical sensor used in Alaska prior to 1989 consisted of a series-parallel network of 20 thermistors; see Sass et al. [1971] for a more detailed description. During a logging experiment, the resistance of the thermistor network was determined using a Wheatstone bridge prior to 1967. After that time, a 4-wire resistance measurement was made using a commercial 5.5-digit multimeter (DMM). Before 1984, boreholes were logged in the 'incremental' or 'stop-and-go' modes; the vertical spacing of the measurements was typically 3-15 m. Beginning in 1984, the depth resistance measurements were automatically stored on magnetic tape, allowing boreholes to be logged in the 'continuous' mode; the typical data spacing for the continuous temperature logs was 0.3 m (1 ft). Many of the Alaskan boreholes were re-logged several times to quantify the thermal disturbance caused by drilling the holes (see Lachenbruch and Brewer [1959]). A review of current temperature measuring techniques used by the USGS in the polar regions is given by Clow et al. [1996]. Data from 1950-1989 are included on the CAPS CD-ROM Version 1.0, June 1998.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, boreholes, united states of america, thermal properties, north america, alaska, arctic alaska, usa, soil temperature, permafrost properties, land records, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, permafrost temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Precipitation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes precipitation measurements as recorded by precipitation gauges. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, precipitation amount, amd, us, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, wet, dry precipitation samplers, precipitation, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, automatic remote weather station, temperature, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: ARCTIC80s_BIONESS. ABSTRACT: This collection includes data collected during two Hudson cruises, one between July 29 to August 3, 1980 and the second between August 7 to August 14, 1983 Plankton samples were collected using the BIONESS sampler equipped with 243u mesh nets. Profiles were from the bottom to the surface. The samples collected were preserved in 4% formaldehyde and later analysed down to species for Copepoda and genus for all other classes and phyla. A wet weight for each group was also measured. Associated chlorophyll, phaeophytin and nutrient data are available.The purpose of this study was to look at the vertical distribution of all major species of zooplankton in Baffin Bay and Davis Strait, with particular emphasis on chaetognaths and copepods (Calanus species and their copepodites in particular) using fine-scale biological samples and simultaneous temperature and salinity data.. KEYWORD: oithona, bioness, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, davis strait, crustaceans, calanus hyperboreus, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, north atlantic ocean, biomass dynamics, northern hemisphere, north america, metridia, copepod abundance, baffin bay, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, chaetognatha, polar, chaetognaths, zooplankton, pelagic habitat, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, pseudocalanus, arrow worms, ecosystem functions, calanus glacialis, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, microcalanus, ichthyoplankton, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, oncaea, zooplankton vertical distribution, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for Severochuisky and Ushnochuisky Ranges (Altay). ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for Severochuisky and Ushnochuisky ranges (Altay) derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Monthly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Canadian Vessel Marine Surface Observations. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes marine surface observations from selected and auxiliary ships in the Canadian marine meteorological observing program. Observations include pressure, wind, waves, and air and sea temperature etc. for the years 1980 to the present, for Canadian offshore locations. Data is primarily the east coast - Grand Banks, Arctic - Beaufort Sea. Coverage varies in both time and space due to the nature of ships-to-opportunity and drilling rigs. This data is currently applied in climatological, environmental and engineering research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, air temperature, none, winds, north america, sea surface temperature, surface winds, waves, polar, ocean winds, pacific ocean, grand banks, earth science, ceos, pressure, beaufort sea, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, ocean pressure, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Atlantic Reference Centre Museum of Canadian Atlantic Organisms - Invertebrates and Fishes Data. ABSTRACT: This is the Atlantic Reference Centre museum database for Canadian Atlantic marine organisms. Specimens represent invertebrates from sponges to tunicates, and fishes. The ichthyoplankton collection is the most extensive, with complete holdings from many scientific broad-scale surveys. Geographic coverage is the Arctic to Cape Cod and the coast to the slope water. Temporally, most specimens were collected from the 1960s to the present.The dataset was developed as the museum management system and electronic catalogue of specimen and collecting information. An added benefit is the value for biogeographic investigations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: fishing bank, province, water body Direct Spatial Reference: point. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, sponges, epipelagic fish, jellyfishes, crustaceans, fish data, gomodp, mid-latitude, arthropods, echinoderms, ecological dynamics, arctic, demersal habitat, northern hemisphere, north america, massachusetts, bottom fish, groundfish, life stage, larval fish, segmented worms (annelids), aquatic ecosystems, species composition, benthic epifauna, benthic infauna, gulf of maine, sea anemones, pelagic habitat, grand banks, nova scotia, benthic animals, bay of fundy, biosphere, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, animals, vertebrates, anthozoans, hexacorals, canada, cgdi, benthic habitat, ocean, canada, new brunswick, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, fish species composition, continent, newfoundland and labrador, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, finfish, abundance, pelagic fish, north atlantic ocean, distribution, indigenous, native species, fish species abundance, united states of america, coastal habitat, flatworms, flukes, tapeworms, polar, mesopelagic fish abundance and biomass, zooplankton, earth science, length, ceos, quebec, roundworms, coastal processes, macroinvertebrates, prince edward island, fish, species, population interactions, davis straight, ichthyoplankton, atlantic ocean, estuarine habitat, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: SLA - Sea Level Anomalies. ABSTRACT: Contents: along-track sea surface heights computed with respect to a seven-year mean Use: study of ocean variability (mesoscale circulation, seasonal variation, El Nio...), including operational oceanography (near-real time products) The data are global mono altimeter satellite products, homogeneous with other satellites, available in near-real time and in delayed time in NetCDF format. In delayed time, two types of products are available: - "Ref" (Reference) series: homogeneous datasets based on two satellites (Topex Poseidon, Jason-1 + ERS, Envisat) with the same groundtrack. Sampling is stable in time. - "Upd" (Updated) series: up-to-date datasets with up to four satellites at a given time (adding GFO and or Topex Poseidon on its new orbit). Sampling and Long Wavelength Errors determination are improved, but quality of the series is not homogeneous. Regional products with an improved quality are available in local areas ("http:  www.aviso.oceanobs.com html donnees produits hauteurs regional "). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, altimeters, sea level anomalies, world ocean circulation experiment, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, tropical ocean global atmosphere, ers radar altimeter, woce, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface topography, physical oceanography, alt (topex), global ocean, environmental satellite, polar, idn_node esrin, cnes, toga, southern ocean, topex, poseidon, pacific ocean, france, cnes, earth science, ceos, general ocean circulation, ra, envisat, global ocean observing system, sea surface height, ocean, altimeter, oceans, topex radar altimeter, ocean topography experiment, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, jason-1, goos, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MSLA - Maps of Sea Level Anomalies and Geostrophic Velocity Anomalies. ABSTRACT: Contents: multimission gridded sea surface heights computed with respect to a seven-year mean Use: study of ocean variability (mesoscale circulation, seasonal variation, El Nio...), including operational oceanography (near-real time products) Gridded data (1 3x1 3 on a Mercator grid), available in near-real time and in delayed time in NetCDF format. In delayed time, two types of products are available: - "Ref" (Reference) series: homogeneous datasets based on two satellites (Topex Poseidon, Jason-1 + ERS, Envisat) with the same groundtrack. Sampling is stable in time. - "Upd" (Updated) series: up-to-date datasets with up to four satellites at a given time (adding GFO and or Topex Poseidon on its new orbit). Sampling and Long Wavelength Errors determination are improved, but quality of the series is not homogeneous. In near-real time this product is available in high (1 3x1 3) an low (1x1) resolution. For gridded merged data, a formal mapping error file is also available, with geostrophic velocity anomalies. Regional products with an improved quality are available in local areas ("http:  www.aviso.oceanobs.com html donnees produits hauteurs regional "). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, altimeters, paleozoic, sea level anomalies, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface topography, physical oceanography, alt (topex), paleo stop date, duacs, global ocean, polar, idn_node esrin, cnes, southern ocean, topex, poseidon, pacific ocean, france, cnes, earth science, ceos, general ocean circulation, phanerozoic, ra, developing use of altimetry for climate studies, sea surface height, ocean, altimeter, paleo start date, oceans, topex radar altimeter, ocean topography experiment, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, jason-1, cambrian, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Modelling Carbon Sequestration in Forested Landscapes (CASFOR-II). ABSTRACT: The general objectives of the Modelling Carbon Sequestration in Forested Landscapes (CASFOR-II) project are to consist of A) the develop a general model for estimating carbon balance and carbon sequestration capacity in forested landscapes or regions, and B) the dissemination of this model amongst the user-community via the Internet. The proposed project builds onto an existing project "CASFOR: Carbon sequestration in afforestation and sustainable management: presentation of a general evaluation tool and generic case studies", which runs from 1999-2001. This project has been highly successful in providing a ecosystem level model to estimate carbon budgets and carbon sequestration for various forest types to a wide range of users world-wide. To date, over 500 users from more than 60 countries have downloaded the model CO2FIX from the project website. Measurement and verification of achievement of specific objectives will be done by monitoring of project progress in terms of milestones and deliverables, and through direct involvement of the user community in the application of the model CO2FIX. The specific scientific and technological objectives of the proposed project CASFOR-II consist of the expansion of the existing ecosystem-level model CO2FIX to a software tool that can be used to analyse carbon budgets at the project- or landscape-level. Expansion of the ecosystem-level model to the level of a landscape or project enables the consequences for carbon sequestration of land-use changes such as afforestation, reforestation and deforestation (ARD). This expansion of the model CO2FIX is, amongst others, intended to provide users with a tool to analyse the consequences of different scenarios of ARD options as specified under the UN-FCCC Kyoto protocol. Aimed at decision support, the model will include basic economic assessments of costs of carbon sequestration, as well as effects of large-scale disturbances on long-term carbon sequestration. As part of the project, ARD options as identified in the IPCC Special Report on Land Use and Land Use Changes will be included in the decision support model., and to dissemination of the model and input parameters to an existing world-wide user-community using an interactive model-platform and information website. Output: 1. A general model for estimating carbon balance and carbon sequestration capacity in forested landscapes or regions; 2. Dissemination of the model via an Internet site. [Summary provided by the European Forest Institute]. KEYWORD: continent, carbon sequestration, reforestation, arctic, vegetation, environmental assessments, habitat conversion, fragmentation, global terrestrial observing system, agriculture, carbon, human dimensions, forest science, soils, afforestation, reforestation, europe, polar, models, gtos, carbon sequestration capacity, land use changes, forested regions, earth science, environmental impacts, land use, land cover, carbon balance, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, usa, nasa, biosphere, forest management, forests, deforestation, regional reforestation, forest conservation, forested landscapes, gosic, geographic region, regional deforestation, land use classes, landscape, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Canadian Arctic Buoy Data, Containing Air Temperature and Sea-Level Pressure Data. ABSTRACT: The dataset contains Arctic 3-hour interval air temperature and sea-level pressure data for Canadian Arctic offshore locations from 1979 to 1998. The data is currently updated every 2 years. Current applications include climatological, environmental and engineering research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, polar, earth science, ceos, climate, pressure, atmospheric pressure, yukon, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, ocean pressure, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: BYU Daily Browse Images of QuikSCAT Sigma-0 Measurements (D. Long); Product #121. ABSTRACT: The QuikSCAT on SeaWinds scatterometer provides normalized radar cross section (sigma-0) measurements of the Earth's surface. While originally designed for wind observation, scatterometers have proven useful in a variety of land and ice studies. To aid in the selection of regions and time periods for study, Brigham Young University has produced this global sigma-0 browse product. This product consists of spatial and temporal averages of QuikSCAT Level 1B sigma-0 values over a one-day period.. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, arctic, vegetation, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sea ice, snow, ice, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, usa, nasa, biosphere, antarctica, quikscat, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system data information system, oceans, amd, esip, geographic region, seawinds, 
TITLE: NOAA AVHRR data archive from Tromso Satellite Station (Norway). ABSTRACT: Since 1973 TSS has received data from the NOAA satellites. Using the national part of the Internet, Uninett, TSS has established a near real-time processing and distribution system for NOAA AVHRR data. Quick looks, raw data set, geo-corrected data sets, SST and weather images are available for near real-time delivery to customers in Norway and other countries that can be reached using Internet or ISDN. The processing and distribution time for these products are typically 1-3 hours. The AVHRR data for the entire coverage area of Tromso Satellite Station is also stored on optical disks. This archive is a part of ESA TIROS Co-ordinated Network.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, arctic, noaa poes, vegetation, infrared imagery, ocean temperature, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, sea surface, esa, esrin, spectral, engineering, avhrr, europe, land cover, sea surface temperature, polar, vertical location, infrared wavelengths, meteorology, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, northern europe, biosphere, land resources, idn_node esrin, tss, visible wavelengths, ocean, oceanography, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) ARC004: Physical and Chemical Data for Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska. ABSTRACT: LTER - Long-Term Ecological Research Program Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska (ARC) LTER ARC004 [Summary adapted from the LTER Core Data Set Catalog]: Depth profiles of Toolik Lake were taken at the deep station. Parameters measured were temperature, conductivity, oxygen, pH, light penetration, and alkalinity. Primary production was measured using the assimilation of 14CO2 by algae. Information about the Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Program can be obtained from: "http:  lternet.edu ". KEYWORD: nsf, continent, arctic, lter, algae, lake temperature, usa, nsf, arc, long-term ecological research, united states of america, conductivity, north america, alaska, arc004, aquatic ecosystems, lakes, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, oxygen, light penetration, earth science, toolik lake, usa, nasa, biosphere, alkalinity, surface water, lake chemistry, depth profiles, primary production, ecosystems, ph, 
TITLE: ChEssBase: an online information system on biodiversity and biogeography of deep-sea chemosynthetic ecosystems. ABSTRACT: ChEssBase is a dynamic relational database available online since early 2005. The aim of ChEssBase is to provide taxonomic, biological, ecological and distributional data for all species described from deep-water chemosynthetic ecosystems, as well as information on available samples, images, bibliography and information on the habitats. These habitats include hydrothermal vents, cold seeps, whale falls, sunken wood and areas of minimum oxygen that intersect with the continental margin or seamounts. Since the discovery of hydrothermal vents in 1977 and of cold seep communities in 1984, over 590 species from vents and over 230 species from seeps have been described (Van Dover et al., 2002. Science 295: 1253-1257). Chemosynthetically fuelled communities have now also been found on large organic falls to the deep-sea floor such as whale falls and sunken wood, as well as on benthic zones of oxygen minimum. The data gathered in the last 30 years has shown that some species are shared amongst these ecosystems and our knowledge of their phylogeography improves with every new discovery. New species are continuously being discovered and described from research programmes around the globe and therefore ChEssBase is in active development and new data are being entered regularly. At present, ChEssBase includes data on 642 species from 421 genera from 76 chemosynthetic sites around the globe. These data contain information (when available) on the taxonomy, morphology, trophic level, reproduction, endemicity, habitat type and distribution. There are now 953 papers in our reference database. In summer 2005, ChEssBase and the InterRidge biological database ("http:  www.interridge.org") were fused into a single source of information for biological data from chemosynthetic ecosystems (Ramirez-Llodra et al., 2005 IR News, 14). This second version of ChEssBase is available online since August 2005, with new records as well as new search and download options. Taxonomically these data comprise all species living on deep-water chemosynthetic ecosystems: hydrothermal vents, cold seeps, whale falls and sunken wood. SCAR-MarBIN (http:  www.scarmarbin.be ) serves a subset of the data described here for Southern-Ocean locations.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, census of antarctic marine life, biological classification, sponges, south china and eastern archipelagic seas, arthropods, echinoderms, arctic, western pacific ocean, obis, lampreys, hagfishes, sharks, rays, chimaeras, segmented worms (annelids), spiny-headed worms, remotely operated vehicle, acorn worms, chess, macroalgae (seaweeds), coml, peanut worms, ray-finned fishes, antarctica, marine volcanism, animals, vertebrates, ipy, ocean, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, scar marine biodiversity information network, continent, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, gastropods, bryozoans, moss animals, obis, coml, caml, submarine, plants, international polar year, polar, census of marine life, southern ocean, hydrothermal vents, eba, biogeography of deep-water chemosynthetic ecosystems, pacific ocean, amd, scar-marbin, earth science, lamp shells, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, obis, scar-marbin, scar-marbin, roundworms, habitat: cold seeps, whale falls and sunken wood, fish, atlantic ocean, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Alaska North Slope (Sagavanirktok River) Meteorological Data, 1994 and 1995. ABSTRACT: Meteorological, soil and vegetation data were collected in 1994 and 1995 from a site adjacent to the Sagavanirktok River (Slope Mountain) Alaska Department of Transportation Maintenance Camp at mile 306 on the Dalton Highway (pipeline Haul Road). This is 109 miles from the Deadhorse end of the Highway or approximately 20 miles north of Toolik Camp, 30 miles south of Happy Valley, and 6 miles south of Pump Station 3 (68 degrees 46 minutes 47 seconds North, 148 degrees 52 minutes 52 seconds West, at 500 m elevation). Parameters collected include air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and direction, precipitation, net and shortwave radiation, soil moisture, subsurface temperature, snowpack temperature and depth, subsurface heat flux, slope, aspect, and vegetation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, soil moisture, water content, tdr, atmospheric temperature, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, opp9409227, precipitation, arcss002, snow temperature, north america, alaska, net radiation, humidity, north slope, thermometers, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, rain, relative humidity, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, toolik lake, anemometers, atmospheric water vapor, snowpack temperature probe, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, water vapor, snow, soil heat flux transducer, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, nsf, continent, soil heat budget, energy balance, air temperature, usa, nsf, united states of america, wind vanes, soil temperature probe, soils, snow, ice, surface winds, radiative flux, polar, incoming net radiation, soil moisture, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, time domain reflectometry probe, arcss, laii, flux, snow, ice temperature, tmrs2, adcc, national science foundation, tower mounted radiometer system 2, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, soil moisture probe, opp-9409227, 
TITLE: Data of body length, sexual period and eye diameter of antarticle krill collected by 14th CHINARE in 1997-1998.. ABSTRACT: The body length, sexual period and eye diameter of krill from the 28 of 83 antarctic sites .. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, krill, geographic region, 
TITLE: The concentration of O2, N2, and Ar, and the isotopic composition of N2 and O2, in GISP2 (reanalysis of selected samples). ABSTRACT: This data set includes values of the O2 N2 Ar ratio, and the d15N an d18O, of trapped gases from about 30 depths in the GISP2 ice core between 40-100 ka. Samples were analyzed in 2005.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, amd, us, cenozoic, paleo stop date 40,000 ybp, arctic, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, paleoclimate, gisp2, greenland, paleo start date 100,000 ybp, atmospheric chemistry, north america, isotopes, mass spectrometers, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, amd, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped Mid-IR SST; Product #185. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped SST product consists of sea surface temperature (SST) obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formely EOS PM) platform. Data are currently available globally at 4 km, and 9 km resolutions with daily, weekly (8 day), monthly and annual time intervals in HDF files. These data are the latest science quality Level 3 files processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) located at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. PO.DAAC is acting as a mirror site for Level 3 MODIS ocean SST products. The MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped Mid-IR (MODIS channel 22 and 23) SST product includes: SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, arctic, gyres, ocean temperature, global, open-source project for a network data access protocol, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, heat flux, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, fronts, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, upwelling, downwelling, earth observing system data information system, ocean, ocean heat budget, earth observing system, aqua, dods, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, opendap, evaporation, indian ocean, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Data set of body length, sexual period and eye diameter of antarticle krill analyzed by 9th CHINARE in 1992-1993. ABSTRACT: 12 samples of Euphausia superba were collected in 1992 1993 austral summer using IKMT trawl. The maturation stage, stomatch fullness, body length, carapace, eye diameter, body weight were measured and calculated.SOVI-I019, Thysanoessa sp. 268 individual weight 9.17g; damaged 1.43g; 7 damaged 1.55g; SOVI-I;1 damaged 1.54g Thysanoessa sp. 2.93g; SOVI-I027;19 damaged E. superba 11.31g Thysannoessa sp. 2.89;. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, krill, geographic region, 
TITLE: Submarine Upward Looking Sonar Ice Draft Profile Data and Statistics. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of upward looking sonar draft data collected by submarines in the Arctic Ocean. It includes data from both U.S. Navy and Royal Navy submarines. Maps showing submarine tracks are available. Data are provided as ice draft profiles and as statistics derived from the profile data. Statistics files include information concerning ice draft characteristics, keels, level ice, leads, un- deformed and deformed ice. Data from the U.S. Navy's Digital Ice Profiling System (DIPS) have been interpolated and processed for release as unclassified data at the U.S. Army's Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) in Hanover, New Hampshire. Data from the analog draft recording system were digitized and then processed by the Polar Science Center, Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington. Data from British submarines were provided by the Scott Polar Research Institute, University of Cambridge. All data sources used similar processing methods in order to ensure a consistent data set. Access to the Submarine Upward Looking Sonar Ice Draft Profile Data and Statistics data set is unrestricted, but users are encouraged to register for the data. Registered users will receive e-mail notification about any product changes.. KEYWORD: ice draft, arctic ocean, polar, declassified naval submarine data, ice roughness, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ice deformation, ceos, upward looking sonar, sonar, usa, noaa, submarine data, scientific ice expeditions, submarine, ocean, leads, sea ice, ice depth, thickness, oceans, geographic region, sound navigation and ranging, scicex, 
TITLE: The sea surface temperature surveyed in the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China (1990 - 1991). ABSTRACT: From March to April of 1991, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature in the cruise of the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, field surveys, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: CTD Data collected by FIMR since 1977. ABSTRACT: The data set comprises the CTD observations made by the FIMR on R V Aranda cruises since 1977 and CTD observations made by Finnish Coast Guard on P S Merikarhu at a fixed staton in the Gulf of Finland since 1999. Nearly all the observations are from the Baltic Sea, mostly from the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and from the northern Baltic Proper. Outside the Baltic Sea data set contains CTD data from cruises to the Weddell Sea and to the Denmark Strait. The amount of CTD stations per year has varied between 500 and 1500. The measurement interval of the present CTD sondes is some centimetres, older sonde (used in years 1977-1985) had the interval of some tens centimetres. The small 'hang alone' SIS sonde have been used as an extra sonde on R V Aranda and on a few cruises made with other vessels. Every CTD down-cast has been stored as one file or two files which include besides the proper CTD data (depth series per station) also the date, time and the position information. The data from the year 1991 onwards have been averaged in one dbar interval. The data of SBE sondes have been processed with Sea-Bird's standard software. Measured parameters: temperature, conductivity and pressure, from 1998 also oxygen; Calculated parameters: salinity, density. CTD sondes: Plessey 9040 (1977-1985), Mk-III (1986- 1997), SBE 911 plus (1994-), SIS plus 500 (1988-), Seacat SBE19 (P S Merikarhu 1999- ).. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, water pressure, ocean temperature, amd, fi, conductivity, temperature, depth, denmark strait, gulf of finland, ctd, conductivity, weddell sea, oxygen, baltic sea, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, density, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ships, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, northern baltic sea proper, gulf of bothnia, 
TITLE: HMAP - History of Marine Animal Populations Database. ABSTRACT: The HMAP database (http:  www.hull.ac.uk hmap) is an open access facility that currently comprises time series of commercial catches covering the period 1611-2000. It is a growing resource and extends more that 240,000 records and more than 100 species. Data are mostly recovered from archives, tax records, custom records or surveys. The facility includes a web guide to the database (the Data Directory) and a web library of dataset downloads (the Data Library), while users can create customized datasets through the HMAP Portal, which is an interactive facility for searching the database. A significant proportion of these holdings are currently available through OBIS. HMAP is a distributed data contributor and the constituent datasets have been mapped to the OBIS schema using DiGIR since 2004. The HMAP program (http:  www.hmapcoml.org) is the historical component of the Census of Marine Life (CoML). It is a multidisciplinary, collaborative project which aims to enhance knowledge and understanding of how and why the diversity, distribution and abundance of marine life in the world's oceans changes over the long term. The HMAP program is currently composed of 9 datasets, 3 of which focus on trawl records from Southeast Australia, one on world whaling, 2 on Northwest Atlantic, and 3 on catch data from Norwegian and North and Baltic seas.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, crustaceans, western africa, arthropods, western pacific ocean, obis, north america, lampreys, hagfishes, sharks, rays, chimaeras, aquatic ecosystems, cetaceans, history of marine animal populations, whales, baltic sea, caribbean sea, aquatic sciences, gulf of maine, africa, coml, grand banks, lobster, ray-finned fishes, australia, decapods, northern europe, biosphere, salmo salar, trawl, animals, vertebrates, fin whale, mammals, ocean, canada, south pacific ocean, oceans, continent, newfoundland and labrador, animals, invertebrates, hmap, north atlantic ocean, agriculture, mediterranean sea, obis, coml, coastal habitat, europe, barents sea, census of marine life, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, earth science, agricultural aquatic sciences, ocean biogeographic information system, iceland, bivalves, fish, north sea, fisheries, atlantic ocean, megaptera novaeangliae, 
TITLE: Quaternary Mollusc Collection. ABSTRACT: Comparative mollusc specimens collected from offshore marine environments, primarily east coast Canada and the high Arctic. This collection was originally compiled by F. J. E. Wagner, retired macropaleontologist and the macrofossils portion of it now resides with Jean Dougherty, ISPG(GSC Calgary) Paleontological Collections GSC Ottawa. Specimens are used for comparative purposes for carbon-14 dating as well as for ecological information. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, gcmd, arctic, scaphopoda, nunavut, northwest territories, marine geology, paleontology, north america, yukon territory, polar, pelecypoda, fossil lists, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, mackenzie delta, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, prince edward island, mollusca, new brunswick, gastropoda, geographic region, 
TITLE: Physical, chemical and biological characteristics of soils from the western Wright Vanda (Lake Vanda district), Ross Sea Region, 2006. ABSTRACT: These data consist of a number of subsets of soil samples gathered from the Wright Valley in January 2006. Replicate randomly-located samples of surface soils to 10 cm depth have been gathered from common landforms in the area. Within the most widespread landforms, the same type of samples have been gathered along transects of increasing distance from Lake Vanda and ... from the banks of the lower Onyx River. For each soil sample, lab-based measurements include: bulk density, texture, moisture content at time of collection, organic carbon (after acidification to remove carbonates) and total nitrogen by Carlo Erba elemental analyzer, ammonium and nitrate (in KCl extraction) by TRAACS auto-analyzer, chlorophyll concentration, CO2 flux at controlled (and varied) temperature and moisture by LiCor 6400, and CO2 fluxes after addition of carbon and nitrogen at controlled temperature and moisture by LiCor 6400. At time of writing this abstract, compilation of data and statistical analysis are not complete. Subsamples of soil samples have been stored at -80C for future analysis of microbial diversity using DNA and RNA probing techniques.. KEYWORD: continent, soil moisture, water content, respiration rate, wright valley, ecological dynamics, soil respiration, decomposition, field surveys, the antarctic dry valley soils project, biogeochemical cycles, agriculture, biomass dynamics, photosynthesis, carbon, denitrification rate, soil temperature, soils, biodiversity functions, soil gas, air, dvs, polar, nitrogen, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, soil fertility, biosphere, autoanalyzer, antarctica, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, primary production, community structure, chn analyzers, laboratory, amd, nz, organic matter, amd, geographic region, microflora, 
TITLE: Data of growth condition and abundance of Euphausia superba circumpolar and in Prydz Bay in 2002 2003. ABSTRACT: During the 19th voyage of Chinese National Antarctic Research Expedition during Dec. 2002 to Feb. 2003,High speed plankton collector (HSPC) were used to collect the circumpolar krill samples when the 'Xue Long' navigated under her nomal speed. In Prydz Bay IKMT net were used to collect krill samples. Krill samples were analyzed, including number counting, weight measuring and sexual maturation, body length and eye diameter determination. The aim of this study is to know the abundance and growth condition of the Euphausia superba in the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, arthropods, abundance, arctic, euphausiids (krill), hspc, high speed plankton collector, amd, cn, plankton nets, plankton, circumpolar, aquatic ecosystems, polar, southern ocean, midwater trawls, zooplankton, earth science, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, ships, euphausia superba, prydz bay, ocean, growth condition, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004. ABSTRACT: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager is to monitor auroral display and intensity at certain wavelength at nearly 180 degrees filed of view. The data is digitized images recorded on DVD-R with two copies; one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between these two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, ccd imager, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: All-Sky TV Camera Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2001 dataset. ABSTRACT: All-sky TV camera is to monitor auroral displays nearly 180 degrees in filed of view, it consists of all-sky camera, control box, timing generator, timer corrector, two VHS recorders, SVHS recorders and TEAC recorder. The all-sky video data is recorded on VHS tapes with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other copy goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, all-sky camera, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canadian GPS Height Transformation Package (GPS-H). ABSTRACT: The GPS Height Transformation Package (GPS-H) allows Global Positioning System (GPS), Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) and Wide Area Differential Global Positioning System (WADGPS) users in Canada to convert their NAD83(CSRS98) ellipsoidal heights to CGVD28 (Canadian Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1928) orthometric heights (heights above mean sea level). The GPS-H package consists of both data and software. The height transformation package is based on two data models: * CGG2000: Scientific model of the geoid for North America generated solely from gravity data collected up to 2000. * HTv2.0 (CGG2000 + HRG01 + Transformation ITRF97-NAD83CSRS98): The CGG2000 geoid model adjusted to the Canadian primary vertical control (CGVD28) by means of 1285 NAD83(CSRS98) ellipsoidal heights throughout Canada. HTv2.0 makes possible the direct transformation of NAD83(CSRS98) ellipsoidal heights to CGVD28 orthometric heights.GPS-H allows Canadian GPS users to convert NAD83(CSRS98) ellipsoidal heights to CGVD28 orthometric heights with the use of the HTv2.0 geoid model. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, cgvd28, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surveying, reference systems, csrs, longitude, nova scotia, geodetics, gravity, gps, ellipsoid, canada, cgdi, canada, orthometric heights, new brunswick, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, latitude, nad83csrs, nunavut, northwest territories, cgg2000, saskatchewan, htv2.0, yukon territory, elevation, vertical location, polar, gps-h, earth science, ceos, dgps, differential global postioning system, land surface, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, prince edward island, geoid model, gravity, 
TITLE: The Epipelagic Fish Community of Beaufort Sea Coastal Waters. ABSTRACT: Purpose: APPLICATION OF RESEARCH: The information is needed for environmental assessments relative to offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in Prudhoe Bay and the eastern Beaufort Sea (e.g., Arctic National Wildlife Refuge). Prior to this effort, these data were not readily accessible to resource managers or other researchers. Abstract: An arcticle was prepared to describe the results of offshore fishery research conducted in northern Alaska. The research was conducted between 1988 and 1991 but new information obtained on the distribution and abundance of Arctic fishes was never published. The combined, multi-year oceanographic (fishery and hydrography) sampling effort repesents the most extensive data set (including resource inventory) from offshore locations in the Beaufort Sea to-date. The main objective was to obtain a broad spatial-temporal sampling extending several kilometers offshore of the mainland coast, with the ultimate goal of discerning general patterns in community composition, species relative abundance, and habitat relationships. An emphasis was placed on dolly varden (Salvelinus malma) and arctic cisco (Coregonus autumnalis) habitat utilization of marine waters. Both are regionally important in subsistence and commercial fisheries. The offshore work employed active sampling gears and associated thermohaline profiles providing high spatial-temporal resolution of catch and environmental observations. This is in contrast to other published ecological studies of the North Slope that have relied on passive gears and less precise fish habitat associations. The ranges of variability in regional oceanography and their effects on the fish community, evident during this study, exemplify the ability of spatially extensive sampling to capture pattern over a wide spectrum of spatial-temporal scales. Supplementary Information: The information for the abstract, purpose and Geographic Description: Offshore fishery of northern Alaska; Beaufort Sea Rectangle Coordinates. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, boreogaidus saida, biological classification, epipelagic fish, arctic, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, animals, vertebrates, arctic cod, ocean, capelin, fish, mallotus villosus, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Northern Biosphere Observation and Modelling Experiment. ABSTRACT: The Northern Biosphere Observation and Modelling Experiment (NBIOME) is a scientific program designed to address key issues and uncertainties in the relationship between terrestrial ecosystems and global environmental change over the Canadian landmass. It will provide an improved understanding of the role of the terrestrial vegetation in the total Earth system. The objectives of NBIOME are 1) to develop and validate methods for the extraction of biophysical and biochemical parameters from optical and microwave satellite data for major Canadian biomes; 2) to develop methods for extending measurements or process understanding embedded in models across a range of spatial scales, from leaf to stand, landscape and region; and 3) to use satellite-derived parameters with data from other sources as input to models for the assessment of ecosystem performance at various time scales from day to season, year, decade and century. The project is a cooperative effort between scientists in universities and government agencies (the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing, Energy, Mines and Resources Canada (now Natural Resources Canada), Forestry Canada and Agriculture Canada). NBIOME datasets have been compiled and are gradually becoming available.The goal of NBIOME is to improve the understanding of the relationship between the climate and the northern ecosystems, including their seasonal, interannual and long-term dynamics and their role in the global carbon cycle. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, evapotranspiration, none, biogeochemical cycles, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, aquatic ecosystems, infrared wavelengths, trace gases, trace species, nova scotia, vegetation cover, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, atmospheric chemistry, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, forest fires, canada, new brunswick, biomass burning, microwave imagery, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, visible imagery, gcmd, vegetation, infrared imagery, nunavut, northwest territories, biomass dynamics, wetlands, grasslands, surface vegetation, saskatchewan, microwave, fire ecology, vertical location, polar, biomass, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, quebec, forests, biogeochemistry, alberta, tundra, prince edward island, ecosystems, forestry, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: Organochlorine Contaminant Residues and Transfers from Mother to Young in Seals, Canada. ABSTRACT: The data is available from 1972 to the present. Samples are collected in the field with an annual growth of 30 records per site per year. The area of coverage includes the Eastern Canadian Offshore, Sable Island, Gulf of St. Lawrence, Scotian Shelf and the Arctic. Parameters measured include: Chemical, DDT, PCB, Mixed-Function Oxidase - enzyme activity in organs such as liver as a result of contaminant exposure. Comments: Confidence in data is high. Contaminant body burdens also related to age and sex of individuals in each species. Research on physiology, energetics and biomechanics of marine mammals and their role in understanding the accumulation, processing, and transfer of contaminants. Archived in DFOs National NCIS database The purpose of this database is to examine the degree that body burdens reflect background levels of contaminants and to study extent to which plasma and mammary tissue acts as a barrier to the transfer of contaminants. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: contaminants, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, gcmd, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, atlantic canada, north america, scotia-fundy region, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, gulf of st. lawrence, coastal habitat, atlantic provinces, polar, pelagic habitat, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, biosphere, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, animals, vertebrates, sable region, canada, cgdi, mammals, ocean, canada, atlantic ocean, scotian shelf, geographic region, 
TITLE: Climatological Data - Arctic Stations. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Climatological Data - Arctic Stations is a historical publication series that are available at the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). The publication contains data from three manned drifting ice stations in the Arctic Ocean. Volume 1 includes data from July 1957 through December 1958 for Drifting Stations A and B. Volumes 2 and 3 include data from June 1966 through April 1971 for Ice Island T-3. Parameters included are: 1. Average and extreme maximum and minimum daily temperatures (Deg. F), 2. Average air temperature (Deg. F), 3. Frequency of pressure by 10-millibar intervals, 4. Station pressure (mb), 5. Number of observations with occurrences of weather, 6. Days with rain, days with snow, rain amount (in.), and snowfall (in.), 7. Temperature (Deg. F) and wind speed (knots), 8. Three-hourly observations of wind speed (knots), 9. Ceiling-visibility (feet and miles), 10. Total cloud amount (10ths), and 11. Rawinsonde data. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: publication CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, ceilometers, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, altimeters, boundary layer winds, arctic, wind profiles, psychrometers, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, humidity, thermometers, air quality, meteorological stations, rain, visibility, surface pressure, barometric altitude, surface air temperature, anemometers, maximum, minimum temperature, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, ocean, water vapor, snow, oceans, gosic, geographic region, boundary layer temperature, altitude, sea level pressure, cloud ceiling, air temperature, clouds, earth science information partners program, wind vanes, wind tendency, pressure thickness, tropopause, radiosondes, visual observations, g3os, , surface winds, polar, ocean winds, earth science, ceos, station height, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, water vapor profiles, hygrometers, esip, flight level winds, dew point temperature, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Anomalies Of Precipitation Amounts (In Per Cent Of Normals) from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The APA data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include anomalies of precipitation amounts for the Northern Hemisphere since 1982.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, continent, precipitation amount, rainfall, arctic, earth science, precipitation anomalies, usa, nasa, precipitation normals, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, precipitation, eastern europe, apa, northern hemisphere, russia, ground stations, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 17th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is the NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 17th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, visible radiance, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Algal response to transplantation with a ice core flipping experiment, Terra Nova Bay, Ross Sea. ABSTRACT: Three ice cores were drilled in sea ice (2.1 m thick) in the region of Gondwana Station in Terra Nova Bay during the 06-07 season. The cores were stored in black plastic bags and then replaced back within the same hole but in reverse order so that the algae from the bottom of the ice were now at the surface of the ice and the ice at the ice surface were now at the ice water interface at the bottom of the sea ice. An additional three profile cores were also drilled but were replaced back into their original holes in the normal configuration as a control. A further 3 cores were then extracted from the ice and processed for chlorophyll, cell numbers and species composition etc as above. At the end of the deployment period the six cores still in the ice were redrilled and extracted from the ice and samples also taken for chlorophyll, cell numbers and species composition as above. A further 3 cores of undisturbed ice were also taken.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, eba, latitudinal gradient project, arctic, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, coring devices, terra nova bay, biosphere, antarctica, field investigation, lgp, amd, nz, phytoplankton, amd, plankton, water quality, water chemistry, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: CRYSYS Lake Ice Research, Canada. ABSTRACT: Lake-ice studies focus on the use of optical and microwave satellite data to extract geophysical information related to lake-ice processes and the identification of freeze-up break-up events for climate variability and change analysis. 1. Develop and validate algorithms and models to extract geophysical information on lake ice with emphasis on SAR and passive microwave data. 2. Produce high quality data sets of important lake ice parameters for monitoring change and for process studies. 3. Develop and validate physically-based lake ice models. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, gcmd, ice freeze-up, mid-latitude, arctic, lake ice, nunavut, northwest territories, brightness temperature data, brightness temperature variability, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, great slave lake, spectral, engineering, optical imagery, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, microwave, polar, great lakes, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ice break-up, canada, cgdi, brightness temperature, canada, lake ice processes, great bear lake, ice depth, thickness, microwave imagery, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: J-CAD Drifting Buoy Data, Arctic Ocean, 2000-2002. ABSTRACT: This data set contains drifting buoy measurements taken from the Japan Marine Science and Technology Center (JAMSTEC) Compact Arctic Drifters (J-CADs). The J-CAD buoys drift with the ice pack, collecting navigational, atmospheric, and oceanographic measurements, and transmitting the data via satellite. Since 2000, investigators have been conducting operations of the J-CADs to measure the structure of upper-ocean currents and water properties under the multi-year ice of the Arctic Ocean for a better understanding of the role the Arctic Ocean plays in global climate. This data set contains measurements from J-CAD buoys 1, 3, and 4, from years 2000-2002. For each buoy it takes approximately one year to drift throught the Arctic Ocean, pass through Fram Strait into the Greenland Sea, and reach the ice edge, where transmission ceases. This research was funded by the Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9910305.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, barometric pressure, drifting ice, atmospheric temperature, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, compasses, buoys, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, arcss126, atmospheric pressure measurements, conductivity, transmitter-equipped drifting buoys, ice drift, fram strait, drifting buoys, wind speed, office of polar programs, national science foundation, anemometers, gps, jcad, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, japan marine science and technology center, ocean, north pole environmental observatory, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, magnetometers, jamstec, air temperature, usa, nsf, compact arctic drifter, npeo, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, salinity, current meter, earth science, ceos, thermistors, greenland sea, global positioning system, atmospheric pressure, acoustic doppler current profiler, adcp, ocean circulation, conductivity temperature depth probes, 
TITLE: Canadian Geoscience Publications Directory. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Geoscience Publications Directory (CGPD) is an online Canadian geoscience directory developed by the National Geological Surveys Committee and the Geological Survey of Canada (GSC), to provide graphical public access to metadata describing geoscience maps and reports published by all Canadian government survey organizations. Current Contents Federal Data (GSC) - Consists of all GSC maps and Open Files and includes GSC's formal report style publications (Bulletins, Memoirs, Papers etc.) from 1970 to the present. This totals approximately 30,000 records updated to June 2000. British Columbia - Consists of 298 Bedrock Mapping publications (Bulletins, Open Files, Preliminary Maps and Papers) dating back to 1958. Alberta - A total of 291 records including Alberta Open File Reports, Earth Sciences Reports, Maps and Information Series publications. Note: publication boundaries are based on NTS 50,000 sheet boundaries and not actual areas of coverage. Saskatchewan - Location of 286 Precambrian Bedrock Geology maps published as Saskatchewan Energy and Mines Reports, Maps, Preliminary Maps and Open Files from 1948 to 1997. Contents also includes a Geological Map of Saskatchewan at 1:1,000,000 scale as well as location information of known mineral occurrences. Manitoba - Consists of 967 publications dating from 1937 and includes Manitoba Geological Reports and Papers, Educational Series publications, Preliminary Maps, field trip guidebooks and Open Files. Ontario - Consists of approximately 3000 publications dating from 1892. This includes Ontario publications series, ARM, M1, M2, M5, M8, MDC, MS, OFM, OFR, P and S. Qu?bec - Represents approximately 52,000 of the current 62,000 bibliographic references from Qu?bec's EXAMINE database. This consists of an inventory of all Qu?bec geoscientific documents from 1860 to the present and includes 56,000 references to mining exploration files and 1700 references to Earth science theses. Nova Scotia - All currently published maps (83) dating from 1966 to the present. Total field and vertical gradient magnetic data for the entire province as well as Meguma Terrane vertical gradient data is available for viewing and can be downloaded free of charge from Nova Scotia. Newfoundland - Currently lists 2189 records dating from 1907 to the present. This includes Newfoundland Open Files, Bulletins, Memoirs, Maps, Mineral Resource Reports and Soil Survey Bulletins. Mineral Occurence locations are now available. Prince Edward Island - Only federal (GSC) data is available. Yukon - Contains 389 records dating from 1971 to the present. This includes Yukon publications series such as EGSD Bulletins, Geoscience maps, Mineral Industry Reports and Open Files. Yukon MINFILE mineral occurrence data now available. Northwest Territories - Currently contains 135 Economic Geology Series Maps and Papers from 1988 to 1997. Note: New Brunswick content is still under construction.The purpose of the Canadian Geoscience Publication Directory is to provide "single-window" internet access to Canadian Geoscience publications. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, folds, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, metals, nunavut, manganese, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, bedrock type, north america, ontario, isotopes, saskatchewan, tectonics, yukon territory, polar, stable isotopes, geochemistry, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, bedrock lithology, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic & Antarctic Research Center (AARC) DMSP OLS Direct Readout Radiance Data from Palmer and McMurdo Stations, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: DMSP OLS level 0 raw telemetry data are acquired on selective passes by satellite receivers located at McMurdo Station, Antarctica (77 degrees, 51 minutes S, 166 degrees, 40 minutes E.) and Palmer Station, Antarctic Peninsula (64 degrees, 46 minutes S, 64 degrees, 4 minutes W.) Generally, most of the Antarctic continent and its coastline are covered daily. Swaths are 2250 kilometers long and generally start or end over the extreme South Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Ross Sea. Continuous data collection at McMurdo Station began on 9 February 1991, and at Palmer Station on 18 January 1990. The band width for LF LS (light fine smooth) is 00.4 - 01.1um and the TF TS (temperature fine smooth) is 10.8 - 12.5um. The data resolution is 550 meters at crosstrack. Data are archived, processed for requesters, and distributed by the Arctic & Antarctic Research Center (AARC). Processing of the raw data will depend on the requirements of the requester, but a typical sequence might be as follows: + Reformat raw data for extraction; up to 10 missing scan lines can be interpolated by the software. + Calibrate the reformatted data to convert from brightness values to temperature values. + Apply the moisture atmospheric correction. + Register selected data to the user-specified grid. + Transfer to user-specified medium. Some examples are tape, diskette, photographic product, or file format for electronic transfer. About 95 percent of the presently archived data is cataloged in our online directory. Data dropouts, caused by transmission interference due to solar flare activity, occur in some images; the processing software can smooth the data if fewer than 10 scan lines are missing. All archived images contain usable data. Processed data are binary byte arrays of user-defined size. Full spacecraft attitude correction and earth correction routines are applied to the raw data to create the products. Orbital elements, equator crossings, altitude and period of the spacecraft are generated for the raw data using the AARC scientific workstation. Data products can be gridded to a user-specified grid. Data are also available in raw form (10 bits of information stored in a 16 bit word) on DDS2 or DDS3 DAT cassettes or on DLT7000 tapes. Users would need access to an 4mm DAT or DLT7000 tape drive. An alternative method to access the digital archive is to use the Sun Workstations located at the AARC, Scripps Institution of Oceanography. AARC personnel can be contacted for access information.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, continent, visible imagery, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, raw telemetry data, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, infrared imagery, dmsp 5d-2, f11, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, defense meteorological satellite program-f9, spectral, engineering, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, mcmurdo station, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, solar irradiance, antarctica, dmsp 5d-2, f9, visible wavelengths, ocean, radiation, global change, idn_node gsfc, aarc, palmer station, ols, amd, operational linescan system, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: NSIDC Daily Precipitation Sums at Coastal and Island Russian Arctic Stations, 1940-1990. ABSTRACT: "This data set contains precipitation data originally recorded in log books at 65 coastal and island meteorological stations, and later digitized at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, Russia, under the direction of Vladimir Radionov. Records from most stations begin in 1940. Instrumentation was generally a rain gauge with Nipher shield until the early 1950s (for most stations), when the Tretyakov precipitation gauge replaced earlier instrumentation. Data have not been adjusted for gauge type or wind bias. Data from 1967 and later are corrected for wetting loss (this correction was made by observers as they recorded the station data).", quoted summary from NSIDC documentation. The data files and associated documentation were downloaded from NSIDC to this DSS dataset in January 2007. Please properly cite this data by referring to ' DS DOCUMENTATION [http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets ds488.0 docs ]'.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, precipitation, precipitation amount, usa, ncar, fixed observation stations, arctic, earth science, weather stations, ground stations, geographic region, meteorological stations, 
TITLE: Arctic Surface Temperature Analyses, monthly, by Walsh. ABSTRACT: Monthly analysis of Arctic surface temperature.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, atmospheric temperature, usa, ncar, arctic, earth science, gridding methods, air temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: BOREAS TGB-07 AMBIENT AIR HERBICIDE AND ORGANOCHLORINE CONCENTRATION DATA. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BOREAS TGB-07 team measured the concentration and flux of several agricultural pesticides in air, rainwater, and dry deposition samples in order to determine the associated yearly deposition rates. This data set contains information on the ambient air concentration of seven herbicides [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacidic_acid (2,4-D), bromoxynil, dicamb, 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA), triallate, trifluralin, and diclop-methyl] known to appear in the atmosphere of the Canadian prairies. Also, the concentration of three herbicides (atrazine, alaclor and metolachlor), two groups of insecticides (lindane and breakdown products and dichlro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT) and breakdown products), and several polychlorinated biphenyls commonly used in the central United States were measured. All of these chemicals are reported, in the literature, to be transported in the atmosphere. Many have been reported to occur in boreal and arctic food chains. The s ampling was carried out from June 16 to August 13, 1993 and May 4 to July 20, 1994 at the BOREAS site in the Prince Albert National Park (Waskesiu).. KEYWORD: continent, gas chromatograph, mass spectrometry, 2,4-d, trifluralin, echo, metolachlor, eosdis, agriculture, earth science information partners program, the boreal ecosystem-atmosphere study, pesticides, north america, triallate, rain, dicamb, earth science, pesticides, pcbs, usa, nasa, gc-ms, alaclor, bromoxynil, mcpa, dry deposition, atmospheric transport, earth observing system data information system, canada, atrazine, laboratory, agricultural chemicals, esip, diclop-methyl, boreas, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Melt Pond Data from the Canadian Arctic. ABSTRACT: This data set contains observations of albedo, depth, and physical characteristics of melt ponds on sea ice, taken during the summer of 1994. The melt ponds studied were located just south of Cornwallis Island in the Barrow Strait, Nunavat, Canada. The reflectance spectra were acquired with a portable spectrometer. Cloud conditions and ice type were recorded as well.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, continent, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, noaa, melt ponds, ocean, canada, north america, sea ice, spectrometers, oceans, geographic region, ice growth, melt, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, canadian arctic, albedo, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Hydrologic Outlets of the Greenland Ice Sheet. ABSTRACT: The Hydrologic Outlets of the Greenland Ice Sheet data set contains GIS point shapefiles that include 891 observed and potential hydrologic outlets of the Greenland Ice Sheet, as identified by Lewis and Smith (2009), using satellite imagery. There are 460 observed hydrologic outlets that include proglacial streams and rivers emerging from the ice sheet (length scale >1 km), proglacial lakes touching the ice edge or clearly connected to it via streams or rivers (length scale >3 km), and sediment-rich plumes exiting tidewater glaciers into fjrds. Also, there are 431 potential hydrologic outlets that include point locations with release of meltwater from fjords without obvious sediment discharge, as well as locations where the ice sheet directly connects to the ocean that cannot be proven to release meltwater. Meltwater features along the entire edge of the ice sheet were mapped via photointerpretation of GoogleEarth and Landsat ETM+ 15 m panchromatic data. The exact acquisition dates of the imagery are not availabe; however, owing to the light and relatively snow-free conditions seen in the GoogleEarth and Landsat images, it is presumed that they were taken during the summer season. Neither Landsat or GoogleEarth images were available for a section of ice sheet within the northern Tunu region; therefore, that region was excluded from the study. This excluded area represents approximately 0.9 percent of the ice sheet perimeter. Data are available via FTP, and can be read in any GIS software. The following journal article provides documentation for this data set: Lewis, Sarah and Laurence Smith. 2009. Hydrologic Drainage of the Greenland Ice Sheet. Hydrological Processes doi: 10.1002 hyp.7343. This journal article can be accessed from the Access External Documentation link at the top of this Web page.. KEYWORD: landsat-7, satellites, continent, polar, etm+, snow melt, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, runoff, ceos, usa, noaa, cryospheric change analysis web services project, surface water, greenland, discharge, flow, ice sheet, google earth, north america, enhanced thematic mapper plus, drainage, geographic region, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: Snow data from Vestfonna from August 2007 to May 2008 (Finland). ABSTRACT: Data includes physical snow properties (temperature, grain size, stratigraphy and density) from six snow pits around Vestfonna ice cap, Nordaustlandet, Svalbard and optical measurements in snow from 01.08.2007-01.05.2008. Dataset also contains weather station and snow pit measurements from Longyearbreen, Svalbard.. KEYWORD: snow density, polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, automated weather system, snow forks, snowpack temperature probe, par sensors, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ipy, ocean, snow cover, international polar year, snow stratigraphy, atlantic ocean, snow density cutter, geographic region, aws, snow, ice, snow depth, photosynthetically active radiation sensors, 
TITLE: Baffin Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected in the course of a regional mapping project on northwestern Baffin Island.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Cardbox files are multi-field databases that accommodate lengthy descriptive text storage. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, none, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, baffin island, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Response of Tundra Ecosystems to Altered Snow Regimes, Toolik Lake, Alaska, and Niwot Ridge, Colorado. ABSTRACT: This study investigated the effects of field manipulations of winter precipitation and summer temperature on species performance, community structure, and ecosystem C and N dynamics. Parameters include ground temperatures at the surface and 15 cm along a gradient of snow depths, snow depth, soil temperatures at 10 cm intervals at several sites in drifts and unimpacted vegetation sites, and active layer thickness. Temperature profiles were monitored continuously. Snow depths were monitored in a grid behind snow fences and in a 1 x 1 km grid surrounding the fence sites. Active layer was monitored at the end of the season. These data are part of the International Tundra Experiment (ITEX) network.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, active layer, atmospheric temperature, ggd, alaska, colorado, arctic, vegetation, usa, noaa, precipitation, united states of america, thermal properties, snow cover, north america, alaska, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, chemistry, global geocryological data system, polar, international tundra experiment, surface air temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, snow, ice temperature, colorado, itex, snow, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: Frontier Well Data for North of 60 - National Energy Board, Canada. ABSTRACT: This data set contains information on the location of wells drilled in the Northern Frontier areas regulated by the National Energy Board for which reports and data are no longer privileged. The information is supplied by industry pursuant to the Canada Oil and Gas Operations Act. Associated information may include well history reports, well logs, petrologic reports, velocity surveys, micropaleontological reports, well test reports, core analysis and so on. The information is provided publicly, pursuant to the Canada Petroleum Resources Act to promote safety of workers, protection of the environment, conservation of the hydrocarbon resources and to increase scientific knowledge and efficient utilization of hydrocarbon resources. The principle uses are expected to be the planning of hydrocarbon exploration programs and production operations, and scientific research, particularly geological stratigraphy and tectonics. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, natural resources, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, oil, northern hemisphere, north america, gas, petroleum, polar, geochemistry, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: Model Output from MBL-GEM III for Typical Tussock Tundra in the Kuparuk River Basin, Alaska, 1921-2100. ABSTRACT: This data set includes output data from the MBL-GEM III model for tussock tundra in the Kuparuk River watershed of Alaska. The model outputs 154 different variables for 123 10 km x 10 km grid cells, and assumes no interaction between adjacent grid cells. Diverse output variables include photosynthesis and evapotranspiration, carbon and nitrogen storage, and soil moisture and respiration, among others. Yearly model results are available for the years 1921 through 2100, with climate drivers based on historical reconstruction of climate and carbon dioxide conditions (for 1921-2000) and two possible future climate scenarios (warmer and wetter climate versus warmer and drier climate, for 2001-2100). Each file included in this 246-file data set contains simulation results for one of the 123 cells for the entire time period, based on one of the two predicted climate scenarios.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nitrogen translocated from foliage, root nitrogen, modeling, alpine, tundra, respiration rate, microbial respiration, ecological dynamics, arctic, lignin, usa, noaa, arctic system science, plant respiration, total plant nitrogen, photosynthesis, sapwood carbon, carbon, alaska, nitrogen loss from ecosystem, climate predictions, models, nitrogen compounds, wfps, mbl-gem model, nitrogen deposition, nitrogen inputs, carbon in litter fall, toolik lake, biosphere, extractives, soil nitrogen, extractives carbon, leaf carbon, atmospheric chemistry, nitrogen in litter fall, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, total soil carbon, tussock tundra, air temperature, sapwood nitrogen, usa, nsf, temperature, soils, polar, litter, extractives nitrogen, lignin nitrogen, leaf, humus, net primary production, national science foundation, net nitrogen mineralization, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, environmental models, atmospheric co2, cellulose carbon, humus carbon, arcss097, leaf nitrogen, north america, molecular nitrogen, soil inorganic nitrogen, percent water filled pore space, par, opp-9732281, arctic system science data coordination center, cellulose nitrogen, gpp, lter0221000, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, roots, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, opp9732281, ecosystem functions, heartwood nitrogen, total plant carbon, climate scenarios, cellulose, litter characteristics, geographic region, arcss, kuparuk river basin, arcss, laii, soil respiration, total ecosystem carbon, total ecosystem nitrogen, vegetation, root carbon, climate models, united states of america, lter-0221000, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, earth science, lignin carbon, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, adcc, npp, humus nitrogen, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ecosystems, nitrogen uptake, heartwood carbon, leaf characteristics, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Weather Data of the 15th Voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research in 1998 1999. ABSTRACT: During the 15th voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition,we used an automatic station to get the weather information, including pressure, cloud, temperature, humidity and precipitation. Every one hour the program wrote the weather data to hard disk.Note: heading, ship's speed, pressure, wind velocity, wind direction, waveheight, air temperature, dew-point temperature, relative humidity. The missing data are indicated as ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, atmospheric temperature, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, salinometers, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, precipitation, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, thermometers, amd, global ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Yearly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped Thermal IR SST; Product #184. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped SST product consists of sea surface temperature (SST) obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formely EOS PM) platform. Data are currently available globally at 4 km, and 9 km resolutions with daily, weekly (8 day), monthly and annual time intervals in HDF files. These data are the latest science quality Level 3 files processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) located at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. PO.DAAC is acting as a mirror site for Level 3 MODIS ocean SST products. The MODIS Aqua Global Level 3 Mapped Thermal IR (MODIS channel 31 and 32) SST product includes: SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, arctic, gyres, ocean temperature, global, open-source project for a network data access protocol, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, heat flux, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, fronts, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, upwelling, downwelling, earth observing system data information system, ocean, ocean heat budget, earth observing system, aqua, dods, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, opendap, evaporation, indian ocean, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Nitrate and Conductivity Data from the GISP H Core. ABSTRACT: This data set contains nitrate and conductivity measurements taken from the Greenland Summit Ice Sheet Project (GISP) H core. GISP was a decade long project during the 1970s and early 1980s to study the climatic record stored in ice sheets, and involved scientists and funding agencies from Denmark, Switzerland and the United States. Nitrate and electrical conductivity measurements aid in the dating of ice cores by providing information about past volcanic eruptions and climate change. This data set involves a total of 7776 individual analyses from the surface of the core to a depth of 122 meters. The analyses were performed simultaneously on the same 1.5 cm ice core sample for each data series.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, arcss, gisp2, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, nitrate, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, arctic system science, gisp2, greenland, usa, nsf, arcss026, conductivity, north america, greenland ice sheet project ii, ions, water quality, water chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, electrical properties, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, national science foundation, greenland ice sheet project, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Ecological Monitoring and Assessment Network Data Set Library (Hosted By Environment Canada). ABSTRACT: The Ecological Monitoring and Assessment Network (EMAN) Data Set Library hosted by Environment Canada is a metadata resource of data sets and research activities that are associated with the mosaic of partners and research sites that make up EMAN. The EMAN was set up to look at what is changing across Canada's environment. Metadata within the Data Set Library pertains to multiple ecological variables meant to track ecosystem changes. Metadata captured in the Data Set Library meets the US Federal Geographic Committee's Content Standard for Digital Geospatial Metadata (CSDGM) and the extended Biological Profile to the CSDGM as developed by the US National Biological Information Infrastructure.The Ecological Monitoring and Assessment Network (EMAN) was first formed in 1994 and its goal is to examine what is changing in the environment. EMAN is coordinated by Environment Canada. The data and research activities described in the Data Set Library are meant to track ecosystem changes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, biological classification, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, sea ice, geothermal, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, air quality, geochemistry, nova scotia, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, surface water, animals, vertebrates, atmospheric chemistry, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, land temperature, new brunswick, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, animals, invertebrates, gcmd, natural resources, seismology, ground water, vegetation, clouds, nunavut, northwest territories, wetlands, saskatchewan, water quality, water chemistry, soils, snow, ice, vertical location, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, quebec, alberta, tides, prince edward island, 
TITLE: PANGAEA-Publishing Network for Geoscientific & Environmental Data. ABSTRACT: This data served by the European Ocean Biogeographic Information System (EurOBIS) is a subset of the information system PANGAEA-Publishing Network for Geoscientific & Environmental Data (http:  www.pangaea.de ). Pangaea is an information system, operated as an Open Access library for georeferenced data from basic research on earth and environment. Scientific primary data are archived with related metainformation in a relational database and distributed via webservices following ISO standards. Data include a bibliographic citation and are persistently identified using a DOI. The system is hosted by the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research (AWI), Bremerhaven and the Center for Marine Environmental Sciences (MARUM)], Bremen, Germany. The World Data Center for Marine Environmental Sciences (WDC-MARE) uses PANGAEA as its data repository.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, foraminifers, census of antarctic marine life, biological classification, counts, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, birds, marine, obis, mediterranean sea, caml, brackish water, protists, international polar year, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, presence, amoeboids, europe, polar, world waters, census of marine life, biota, southern ocean, eba, coml, amd, scar-marbin, earth science, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, obis, scar-marbin, biosphere, antarctica, scar-marbin, animals, vertebrates, ipy, ocean, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, scar marine biodiversity information network, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Point Barrow, Alaska and Vicinity Bathymetry. ABSTRACT: This data set contains bathymetry data for Point Barrow, Alaska, and its vicinity. A bathymetry grid was interpolated from depth soundings measured in meters below mean lower low water (MLLW) and contours that were digitized from a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) nautical chart (28 July 1990 1:47,943-scale, chart #16082). The data set includes the derived bathymetry grid, the depth soundings map, and the contour map.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, digital elevation model, arctic system science, human dimensions of the arctic system, arctic, geotiff, usa, noaa, dem, arctic system science, noaa, north america, alaska, north slope, barrow, models, arctic system science data coordination center, noaa nautical chart, office of polar programs, national science foundation, coastal alaska, bathymetry, seafloor topography, digitizer, water depth, ocean, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, arc, info, sea floor, geographic information systems, national oceanic and atmospheric administration, arcss031, gis, usa, nsf, united states of america, beaufort sea coastline, seafloor topography, vertical location, polar, digital mapping, opp-0100120, earth science, raster, ceos, beaufort sea, adcc, opp0100120, national science foundation, arcss, harc, chukchi sea coastline, 
TITLE: Main Meteorological Observations (Eight Synoptic Hours) from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The MMOS8 data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include air temperature, dew point, pressure, humidity, winds, clouds, sunshine, and soil temperature for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, sunshine, mmos8, arctic, clouds, air temperature, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, russia, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, europe, air quality, polar, visibility, atmospheric phenomena, cloud types, asia, earth science, solar radiation, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, eastern europe, water vapor, geographic region, eurasia, atmospheric radiation, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: NWT Minerals Database (NORMIN), References. ABSTRACT: A catalogue of geology references for the NWT. Each record contains metadata for a reference and a summary of its contents. References include mineral exploration industry assessment reports, NTGO publications, theses, and journal articles. Links are provided to relevant mineral showings records in the NORMIN Mineral Showings database. This catalogue is also accessible through the Canadian Geoscience Knowledge Network (CGKN). It contains over 7600 items, over 3000 of which are downloadable.To assist mineral exploration, land use planning, resource assessment, and geoscientific research. To faciliate discovery of geoscience data, maps and publications of the Northwest Territories Geosicence Office (NTGO). To document all publications and articles produced by the NTGO, plus all theses and as many articles as possible which are relevant to NWT geology. z39.50s:  216.108.148.140:6675 nor. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, minerals, natural resources, arctic, mineral exploration, metals, geology, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, mineral occurrence, north america, human dimensions, polar, earth science, radioactive elements, ceos, igneous rocks, mining, metamorphic rocks, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, non-metallic minerals, economics, canada, cgdi, canada, economic resources, coal, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Longyearbyen school. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 9.25m deep borehole was drilled close to Longyearbyen school. It is part of the TSP Norway school module and the Alaskan EPSCOR project. Borehole stratigraphy: 1.2-1.4m: Ice-rich layer 2.5m: some centimetres of ice 1.4-8.8m: thin ice lenses (2-3cm) are common 8.8-8.9m: thicker ice lenses (5-7cm). KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, longyearbyen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Electronic Nautical Chart Index. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Hydrographic Service (CHS) has been in the forefront worldwide in the development and dissemination of electronic navigational charts (ENCs). Hydrographic survey data is stored and displayed electronically in either raster (a direct electronic reproduction of a paper chart) or vector (the user can manipulate the display scale, types of data, and level of detail) formats. CHS makes electronic charts (ECs) available to companies manufacturing ECDIS or EC systems for a variety of large and small vessel owners.When combined with the GPS, radar, ship course, speed, and draft in an Electronic Chart Display and Information System (ECDIS), the electronic navigational chart (ENC) becomes part of a powerful system allowing mariners to know their ship's position instantly and accurately and to be warned of dangerous situations.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, united states of america, northern hemisphere, s57, north america, geobrowser, human dimensions, enc, geoportal, north pacific ocean, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, natural hazards, hydrological hazards, bathymetry, seafloor topography, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Measurement of sea ice thickness and subice morphology in Arctic Ocean using ice penetrating radar. ABSTRACT: During the first Chinese Arctic Scientific Expedition between July and September in 1999, a ground radio-echo sounding survey was carried out, using a new type of ice penetrating radar system with antenna center frequencies of between 100 and 200 MHz, for detecting the sea ice thickness in the Arctic Ocean. In addition, the radar sounding yielded a subtle morphology on the bottom of the sea ice in the summer in the Arctic Ocean.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, radar reflectivity, radio wave flux, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, field surveys, ice penetrating radar, sea ice thickness, subice morphology, radar imagery, radio detection and ranging, radar, radio wave, ocean, amd, cn, sea ice, ice depth, thickness, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, radar echo sounders, 
TITLE: HYDROGRAPHIC DATA OF THE LOC-IUEM UBO. ABSTRACT: ENGLISH Data collected by the Chemical Oceanography Laboratory (LOC CHIMAR, France) in the frame of two main programs: 1) nitrogen fluxes in the food web, fluid transports for coastal systems and deep ocean as well; 2) chemical (nutrients and transient) tracers of the oceanic circulation. Data were collected during the following compaigns: POLYGAS (1972), CINECA, SATYR (12 cruises), DYNATLANTE 82, INDIGO, MEDIPROD IV, PACIPROD, ALMOFRONT, MEDATLANTE (in collaboration with CNRS INSU of Villefranche, LPCM and COM), ROMANCHE, CITHER (in collaboration with IFREMER, Brest), ENVAT, ONDINE and ATHENA (in collaboration with SHOM). Data were also collected during seasonal campaigns (irregularly) near Douarnenez and Roscoff since 1979. Most of the data is duplicated at the marine station Roscoff, with which a regular collaboration has been established. Samples collected were analyzed onboard by an automatic analyzer. The freons by gas chromatography. FRANCAIS Gestion des donnees du L. O.C. qui est principalement implique dans deux themes: 1) le flux d'azote dans la chaine alimentaire et les transports du fluide pour les systemes cotiers et hauturiers; 2) les traceurs chimiques de la circulation. Les donnees ont ete collectees au cours des campagnes: POLYGAS (1972), CINECA, SATYR (12 campagnes), DYNATLANTE 82, INDIGO, MEDIPROD IV, PACIPROD, ALMOFRONT, MEDATLANTE (en collaboration avec le CNRS INSU de Villefranche, le LPCM et le COM), ROMANCHE, CITHER (en collaboration avec le Centre IFREMER de Brest), ENVAT, ONDINE et ATHENA (en collaboration avec le SHOM). Les donnees sont egalement collectees au cours de campagnes saisonnieres (irregulieres) en baie de Douarnenez et de Roscoff depuis 1979. La plupart des jeux de donnees sont duplliques a la station marine de Roscoff avec laquelle une collaboration reguliere est etablie. Les echantillons preleves sont analyses a bord par analyseur automatique. Les freons par chromatographie en phase gazeuse.. KEYWORD: ecological dynamics, water temperature, ocean temperature, biogeochemical cycles, no3, po4, global ocean, arctic, fr, oxygen, sea surface temperature, ocean chemistry, ocean composition, o2, biosphere, antarctica, nutrient cycling, offshore, ecosystem functions, ships, gas chromatographs, ocean, amd, fr, oceans, amd, salinity, density, dissolved gases, geographic region, coastal, freons, continent, north atlantic ocean, global, nitrate, nutrients, mediterranean sea, food-web dynamics, si(oh)4, temperature, ocean tracers, polar, salinity, earth science, phosphate, ceos, autoanalyzer, subsurface hydrography (eg t,s), bathysonde, silicate, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Ny-lesund. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 10m deep borehole was drilled in Ny-lesund.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ny-lesund, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Yearly characteristics on the weather and climate of the Great Wall Station and Zhongshan Station, Antarctica from 1985 to 2000. ABSTRACT: The monthly mean of surface meteorological data at Geat Wall Station and Zhongshan Station,Antarctic. -Atmospheric pressure at Station level( hPa ) -Air temperature of 1.5 m above the surface -Relative humidity( % ) of 1.5 m above the surface -Wind direction and wind speed of 10 m above the surface. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, antarctica, automated weather system, ozone, zhongshan station, atmospheric chemistry, amd, cn, weather observation at great wall station, amd, ground stations, geographic region, aws, south pole, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) CWT001: Coweeta Climatic Measurements. ABSTRACT: LTER CWT001: This data set contains Level 1 climatic parameters for the main Coweeta Climatic Station. All the data have been collected daily and are summarized by the following parameters: monthly mean temperature, monthly maximum and minimum temperature, monthly total precipitation, and monthly mean global radiation. During the last 50 years, 30 climatic stations were operated at Coweeta. Only the main station has been continuously active since 1934. Over 135 precipitation sites have been gaged at various times over the past 50 years. Precipitation modified by topography is a dominant factor in Coweeta climate. Precipitation consists of frequent, small, low-intensity rains in all seasons with little snow. The Coweeta basin experiences frequent afternoon clouds in the summer thereby affecting the amount of solar radiation. Only 10 to 15% of the summer solar radiation is transmitted through the fully leafed canopy and about 50% during dormant months. Information about LTER is also available at "http:  lternet.edu " NOTE: LTER data may be made available to individuals for research purposes. Use of LTER data requires that NSF's LTER grant and the Principal Investigator of the dataset be sent a copy of the report or manuscript prior to submission and be adequately cited in any resultant publications. Datasets are provided by the Coweeta LTER Data Bank, a partnership between the Institute of Ecology, University of Georgia, and the U.S. Forest Service Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, Otto, North Carolina.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, cwt001, global radiation, lter, arctic, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, united states of america, north america, heat flux, polar, hydroclimatology, north carolina, earth science, solar radiation, forest ecosystem, terrestrial ecosystems, usa, nasa, biosphere, forests, coweeta, ecosystems, climatology, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Hexacorallians of the World (IOBIS). ABSTRACT: A compilation of publications concerning taxonomy, nomenclature, and geographic distribution of extant hexacorallians - members of cnidarian orders Actiniaria (sea anemones in the strict sense), Antipatharia (black corals), Ceriantharia (tube anemones), Corallimorpharia (sea anemones in the loose sense), Ptychodactiaria (sea anemones in the loose sense), Scleractinia (hard or stony corals), and Zoanthidea (sea anemones in the loose sense) Funded largely by US National Science Foundation grants DEB95-21819 and DEB99-78106 (in the program PEET - Partnerships to Enhance Expertise in Taxonomy) and supplements in the REU program (Research Experience for Undergraduates) to Daphne G. Fautin, and grant OCE00-03970 (in NOPP, the National Oceanographic Partnership Program) to D.G.F. and Robert W. Buddemeier. Sea Anemones of the World Data include: * Bibliographic reference to the work in which each taxon was originally described * Synonymy of each taxon * Taxonomic status of each taxon * Images of many species - from the published literature as well as previously unpublished ones * Type specimens - by species and by museum * Type locality of each species * Published distribution of each species * List of relevant publications by each author * Classification schemes of Hexacorallia Updates, including both additions and corrections, are being made continually in all categories. Corrections are made as errors are found. Additions of data and functionalities are made at intervals of several months; the date of the current version is prominently displayed. Archival copies of previous versions can be obtained upon request. As of 31 January 2003, the inventory of genera and species was virtually complete for Actiniaria, Antipatharia Ceriantharia, Corallimorpharia, and Ptychodactiaria (now considered a component of Actiniaria), although not all associated data are available for every species. As bibliographic details for higher taxonomic levels are assembled, the hierarchical placement of each taxon will be specified. Data on type specimens are from two sources. A small number of records are from listings in published type catalogs of two museums, and from original descriptions that specified as repositories museums that have not been visited. Most records are from examination of the specimens by Daphne Fautin in 40 natural history museums in Europe, the Pacific, and North America. The museums that have been visited include those with large holdings of sea anemone type specimens. More information on the collections and temporal coverage of the data included can be obtained at: http:  hercules.kgs.ku.edu hexacoral anemone2 index.cfm. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, reef habitat, arctic, north atlantic ocean, obis, north america, global ocean, aquatic ecosystems, coastal habitat, europe, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, taxonomic coverage: cnidaria: actiniaria, antipatharia ceriantharia, corallimorpharia, and ptychodactiaria, polar, amd, us, census of marine life, corals, southern ocean, sea anemones, coml, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, usa, nasa, biosphere, antarctica, anthozoans, hexacorals, ocean, south pacific ocean, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) Measurements Collected by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network at NOAA CMDL HATS. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has collected hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from flask samples and in situ instruments located at monitoring stations and 3 ship cruises. The Halocarbons and other Trace Species Group (HATS)of NOAA CMDL collected flask pair measurements for HFC-134a (1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane) from network stations, from shipboard instruments, and archived air samples. NOAA CMDL NOAH stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO). Cooperative stations are at Niwot Ridge, Colorado (NWT); Alert, Canada (ALT); and Cape Grim, Australia (CGO). Principal investigators for the HFC flask measurements are: S. Montzaka, J. Elkins, and J. Butler (NOAA CMDL) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats hfcs" For more information on the NOAA CMDL HATS program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " A subset of this data is available from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) as part of the Trends collection. "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, greenhouse effect, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, usa, noaa, noaa, north america, alaska, ground stations, noah, trace gases, trace species, hfc, australia, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, ships, cape grim, global warming, gas chromatographs, canada, ocean, mauna loa, amd, geographic region, flask, continent, hfc-134a, american samoa, cape matatula, flasks, greenhouse gas, united states of america, alert, cmdl, polar, ftp, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, australia, new zealand, earth science, ceos, colorado, tetrafluoroethane, hydrofluorocarbons, samoa, niwot ridge, point barrow, central pacific ocean, south pole, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Daily Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Coastal Environmental Data - Northern and Eastern Canada. ABSTRACT: The Geological Survey of Canada Atlantic collects environmental data in coastal areas to study nearshore and coastal processes. The types of data collected include current, wave, meteorological, and water level (tides) data.This environmental data is necessary to understand the driving forces for coastal and nearshore processes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: tide, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, water level, mid-latitude, marine, wave, current, northern hemisphere, eastern shore nova scotia, north america, tidal height, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, southern gulf of st lawrence, coastal processes, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, wind, 
TITLE: PROBES (Primary Productivity of the Bering Sea) data. ABSTRACT: PROBES (Primary Productivity of the Bering Sea) data has been collected by the Institute of Marine Science from the University of Alaska. The PROBES data is contained in the 4 files in digital form. As in the original reports, the data is divided into two sections: the hydrographic (hydro) data and the productivity (prod) data. Each group is further broken down into a header (head) file and a data file. The header files contains only the date, lat, long, and max depth and related descriptive data. All the discrete depth data is in the data files.. KEYWORD: chlorophyll a concentration, arctic ocean, bering sea, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, pigments, pacific ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Investigating respiratory viruses from Antarctic personnel at Scott Base, McMurdo Station and South Pole Station to determine immune system adaptation to climatic extremes. ABSTRACT: Aspects of human biomedical and immunological adaptation to Antarctic isolation was studied including the occurrence of respiratory virus infections in people overwintering in Antarctica and the reasons for their rapid loss of resistance to infection under these conditions. Winter over personnel are initially exposed to colds and other infections brought to Antarctica by summer support and scientific personnel at Scott Base and McMurdo Station. At this time, their immunity to these infections is maintained at normal levels. However, at the onset of winter isolation, the frequency of upper respiratory infections decreases and a consequent decline in immunity, often to sub normal levels occurs. Return to civilisation is often accompanied with an increased frequency of upper respiratory illness. In order to understand the immune mechanism involved, we need to know; a) the virus or viruses causing upper respiratory infections during the summer season and or during winter isolation and b) the antibody levels to a particular virus or viruses in winter over personnel throughout the year. Blood, throat and nasal swabs and nasal wash samples were collected from Scott Base staff at four different periods; i) Pre Antarctic collection (October 1975 Christchurch), ii) Mid summer collection (December 1975 Scott Base), iii) Mid winter collections (August, 1976 McMurdo) and iv) Win Fly collection (September 1976 Scott Base). In addition, specimens were taken from acute upper respiratory cases occurring in both winter over or summer support personnel during the summer season, when possible. Cell culture facilities were established at the Eklund Biological Centre to provide the best possible conditions for virus isolation at McMurdo and Scott Base. Samples were inoculated directly into cell culture for the isolation of viruses. The facility was also transferred to the biomedical laboratory at the South Pole Station to monitor the spread of virus infections to this base. A total of 11 viral isolated were made from specimens collected and directly inoculated into cell culture either at McMurdo, Scott Base or South Pole Station.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, mcmurdo station, earth science, ceos, antarctica, field investigation, human health, south pole station, laboratory, amd, nz, amd, human dimensions, geographic region, public health, diseases, epidemics, scott base, 
TITLE: Expendable Bathythermographs (XBT) data from the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China. ABSTRACT: In the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China, some data were acquired through XBT on the way to Zhongshan Station.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, xbt, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Kapp Linne 1. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 30m deep borehole was drilled on the strandflat at Kapp Linne. Stratigraphy: The entire hole is through bedrock. Upper c. 30cm heavily weathered. 0-3.5m: soft (weathered?) 3.5-5m: harder 4.1m: slip zone 5-11.7m: softer 11.7-14m: harder 14-15m: layering (sample) 17-30m: softer. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, kapp linn, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Canadian National Earthquake Database. ABSTRACT: The National Earthquake Database (NEDB) comprises a number of separate databases (summarized below), all developed and administered under the INGRES Relational Database Management System. ANALOGREC - an inventory of all analogue seismic records. EQ - complete information for all Canadian earthquakes since the 16th century, including epicentral solutions, phase arrival measurements and comments, and an index to corresponding digital waveforms stored in the National Waveform Archive. EQYKA - results for the automatic processing of Yellowknife Seismological Array (YKA), including event location, magnitude, slowness, azimuth, and various detection parameters. INTENSITYDB - results of intensity surveys for selected Canadian earthquakes, one per table. OD - record of all digital waveforms stored in the current National Waveform Archive, based on SONY 12" optical disk platters. STA - Canadian National Seismograph Network (CNSN) station-related parameters (latitude, longitude, elevation, instrument type, response, etc.) over time. STRESSDB - stress data (directions of minimum and maximum horizontal stress, axes, etc.) from focal mechanisms, in-situ measurements, and geological data.The National Earthquake Database acts as the national repository for all raw seismograph data, measurements, and derived parameters arising from the Canadian National Seismograph Network, regional telemetered networks in eastern and western Canada (ECTN, WCTN), local telemetered networks (CLTN), the Regional Analogue Network, the former Standard Seismograph Network, and the Yellowknife Seismological Array. It supports the Seismology Program's efforts in Canadian seismicity monitoring, global seismic monitoring, verification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and international data exchange. None for information made available through the web site. Please contact distributor for custom order requests and possible fees. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, earthquake occurrences, none, seismic profile, northern hemisphere, epicentre information, north america, ontario, canadian earthquakes, earthquake dynamics, north pacific ocean, strain, new hampshire, mine-blasts, rock-bursts, nova scotia, new york state, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, earthquake predictions, western hemisphere, washington, geophysical data, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, seismology, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, saskatchewan, seismic surface waves, tectonics, yukon territory, seismic body waves, polar, stress, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geophysics, quebec, alberta, environment, st lawrence river, prince edward island, stress data, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean and Climate Atlas (1950-1989). ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM atlas contains statistics of 45 years of summer (July through September) temperature and salinity data. All temperatures in this atlas are shown as potential temperatures. Salinities are reported in standard salinity units. Densities are reported as potential density. Minimum, maximum, mean, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis, 1st quartile, median, and 3rd quartile of the temperature and salinity data were calculated for each decade in the data set and over each 200 km by 200 km grid cell within the central Arctic region. In the Nordic and Siberian Seas, the statistics were calculated over 50 km by 50 km cells, as well as 100 km by 100 km cells, due to the smaller spatial scales in this region. These statistics were compiled for depths (in meters below the ocean surface) of 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 750, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, and 4000. The ocean bottom bathymetry was defined using the National Geophysical Data Center ETOPO5 digital data set. The decadal periods are: 1950-1959, 1960-1969, 1970-1979, 1980-1989. The number of original data points used to calculate the statistics are recorded for each location and a planar fit to the data, at each depth, was also generated to indicate linear trends within each cell. The three coefficients of the planar fit and the root-mean-square error of the fit are also recorded in the atlas. It was agreed to publish these statistics because most of the Russian original data could not be released. The CD-ROM atlas also contains a complete set of statistics for the periods, June, October and November. Statistics for December through May are available in the atlas for the winter period.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, salinity, density, arctic, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, arctic, cn, geographic region, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: GISP2 10Be Concentration, 40,000 Years, Finkel and Nishiizumi 1997. ABSTRACT: Melted water was collected from the outside of samples taken for cation and anion analysis. A small aliquot was taken for anion analysis (chloride, nitrate, and sulfate) and the remainder was weakly acidified with HNO3 to yield a final pH of about 2. Be, Cl and Al carriers were then added. The Be (and Al and Cl) were concentrated from the melted ice using ion exchange resins. Be was then eluted from the cation exchange column, precipitated as Be(OH)2 and ignited to BeO for accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) measurement. The AMS measurements were carried out at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Center for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (Davis et al., 1990). The 10Be (half-life = 1.5 x 10^6 years) concentration was normalized to an ICN standard (diluted by K. Nishiizumi) after carrier blank and boron background correction.. KEYWORD: continent, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, gisp2, greenland, paleo start date 40,000 ybp, north america, isotopes, solar activity, solar variations, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, ions, polar, ice cores, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, deglaciation, solar irradiance, sun-earth interactions, ice core records, be-10, geographic region, beryllium concentrations, 
TITLE: A cross-calibrated, multi-platform, multi-instrument ocean surface wind velocity data set (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov PRODUCTS p079.html). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used (http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR (http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. Each data stream contains three standard products designated as level 3.0, 3.5 and 2.5. Level 3.0 data contains 6-hourly gridded VAM instantaneous analyses. These analyses are time averaged over 5-day and monthly periods to derive the Level 3.5 products. Only those grid points with one or more analyzed observations are used in the average. Finally, directions from the VAM analyses are assigned to the wind speed observations daily for each microwave sensor (DMSP SSM I, AMSR-E, TRMM TMI) to derive the Level 2.5 products. Level 3.0 and 3.5 data sets are stored in the Hierarchical Data Format (HDF, http:  hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu). Level 2.5 products are stored in binary "bytemap" files to parallel the original satellite data files from RSS. All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data also distributed in NetCDF format (http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "analysis_20040101_v10l30flk.nc.gz" designates a level 3.0 (l30) data set containing VAM analyses for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, dmsp 5d-2, f14, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, buoys, dmsp 5d-3, f15, tmi, aqua, global ocean, radiometers, discover, amsr, trmm, adeos-ii, quikscat, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, nscat, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, advanced earth observing satellite-ii, geographic region, seawinds, indian ocean, special sensor microwave, imager, smmr, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, advanced microwave scanning radiometer, trmm microwave imager, tropical rainfall measuring mission, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, nasa scatterometer, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Dataset of the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 18th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 2001-2002. ABSTRACT: This data set is about salinity and temperature of surface sea water in the cruise of the vessel XUE LONG during the 18th CHINARE in 2002-2003.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, conductivity meters, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, ocean pressure, thermometers, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Model Intercomparison Project. ABSTRACT: Forcing data sets of the Arctic Ocean Model Intercomparison Project and the modeling results. The project is in progress and all the data sets aren't yet available.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, parent dif phc_climatology, arctic, open-source project for a network data access protocol, earth science information partners program, parent dif ncep_reanalysis, sea ice, parent dif omip_forcing, arctic ocean model intercomparison project, polar, ocean winds, models, earth science, cryosphere, climate, usa, nasa, aomip, ocean, dods, oceans, salinity, density, esip, geographic region, opendap, ocean circulation, sea-ice, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: GRAVSAT: Regional Gravity Anomaly Surveys from Satellite Altimetry. ABSTRACT: GRAVSAT provides gravity survey information for the offshore oil and gas exploration industry. Based on the analysis of radar altimetry from the ERS-1 Geodetic Phase, completed in March 1995, high resolution gravity information is derived from the along track sea surface slopes measured by the satellite. At the equator, tracks are approximately 8km apart, reducing to 4km at 60 degrees of latitude, thus providing similar sampling to many conventional ship surveys. GRAVSAT gravity anomaly data have been validated against ship measurements over several areas of the United Kingdom Continental Shelf, for which the British Geological Survey have comprehensive datasets.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, control surveys, anomaly, natural resources, altimeters, mid-latitude, arctic, sea floor, european remote sensing satellite-1, global, equatorial, ers-1, sea surface, esa, esrin, petroleum, altimetry, polar, vertical location, exploration, southern ocean, gravitational field, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geophysics, geodetics, gravity, offshore exploration, antarctica, natural gas, geodetic satellite, sedimentary rocks, geosat, ocean, gravity, rocks, minerals, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: First Nations Settled and Unsettled Land Claims in Canada. ABSTRACT: This shape file includes settled and unsettled land claims. Unsettled land claims with no known boundaries includes the following: ALGONQUINS OF PIKWAKANAGAN (GOLDEN LAKE) (ONTARIO). No outline data. Shown as a point symbol. INAC Claim Category "Other Claims". - QUEBEC ALGONQUIN CLAIM (QUEBEC). Shown as a point symbol. INAC Claim Category "Claims Awaiting A Decision Re: Acceptance Or Rejection (INAC)". Other unsettled land claims (known boundaries) include the following outstanding land claims (several are overlapping claims), listed by INAC Claim Category: CLAIMS IN NEGOTIATION (INAC 1999) - DOGRIB CLAIM TREATY 11. Mapped based on NWT NORTH SLAVE REGION. Overlaps with Treaty 8 Dene. - TREATY 8 DENE. Shown as overlapping claim with Dogrib Claim. ATIKAMEKW AND MONTAGNAIS CLAIMS (QUEBEC LB). Mapped using general outline. Shown for Quebec and as part of NF LB overlapping claims. - MAKIVIK CLAIM - OFFSHORE (N.W.T.) AND LABRADOR (ONSHORE AND OFFSHORE). Shown as part of NF LB overlapping claims. - LABRADOR INUIT ASSOCIATION (LIA) CLAIM (NFLD. AND LABRADOR). Shown as part of NF LB overlapping claims. - INNU NATION CLAIM (NFLD. AND LABRADOR). Shown as part of NF LB overlapping claims. - CLAIMS IN BC. Nisga'a - ratified by Nisga'a, BC parliament, awaiting federal ratification; Sechelt have reach AIP; almost all the province has outstanding land claims. All of BC is shown as overlapping claims. - YUKON UMBRELLA AGREEMENT SETTLEMENT AREA (1993). This area is approximated using Yukon First Nation Traditional Territory boundaries. Seven First Nations have reached settlement, with a further 7 continuing land claim negotiations. As Yukon Umbrella Agreement deliberations are ongoing, the entire Yukon is shown as having outstanding land claims. OTHER PROCESSES (INAC 1999) - SOUTH SLAVE METIS TRIBAL COUNCIL - SOUTH SLAVE REGION (Treaty 8). Shown as part of overlapping claims in NWT SOUTH SLAVE REGION. - SALT RIVER FIRST NATION (N.W.T.). Shown as part of overlapping claims in NWT SOUTH SLAVE REGION - DEH CHO FN - DEH CHO REGION (Treaty 8). Mapped based on NWT DEH CHO REGION. CLAIMS AWAITING A DECISION RE: ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION (INAC 1999) - LABRADOR METIS ASSOCIATION (NFLD. AND LABRADOR). NOTE that "It is the preliminary federal position that the LMN claim cannot be accepted for negotiation under the Comprehensive Land Claims Policy" (INAC). Shown as part of overlapping claims in NF LB. - NASKAPI OF QUEBEC (SCHEFFERVILLE) COMPREHENSIVE LAND CLAIM (NFLD. AND LABRADOR) Shown as part of overlapping claims in NF LB. - MIAWPUKEK MI'KAMAWEY MAWI'OMI (CONNE RIVER MIKMAQ BAND OF NEWFOUNDLAND) (NFLD. AND LABRADOR). Shown as part of overlapping claims in NF LB. On the other hand, modern settled land claims include the following: James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement (1977); b) The Northeastern Quebec Agreement (1978); c) The Inuvialuit Final Agreement (1984); d) The Gwich'in Agreement (1992) (NWT AND YUKON); e) The Nunavut Land Claims Agreement (1993); f) The Sahtu Dene and Metis Agreement (1994). NOTE: The following two land claims were not included: - ACCEPTED CLAIM AWAITING NEGOTIATIONS (INAC 1999) CREES OF QUEBEC OFFSHORE ISLANDS CLAIM (N.W.T.). Not shown due to scale limitations. This claim concerns small islands off the northern shore of Quebec and Labrador. - REJECTED CLAIMS (INAC 1999) OJIBWAY OF PIC RIVER FIRST NATION (ONTARIO). This land claim was rejected by the Federal Treaty Commission. First nation settlements and land claim areas are approximate only. Land Claim areas are subject to change. Areas shown as overlapping land claims may include some lands where there is in fact only one First Nation land claim. These areas have been generalized to provincial and territorial boundaries for presentation purposes. SCALE: Suitable for graphic display only. PROCESSING: Settlement lands and or land claim boundaries digitized on-screen using VMAP_R4 political boundaries for outline of settlements land claims where applicable. All non-political boundaries approximated visually from maps or graphics. - Attributes added as required. Geospatial Reference Information: Map Projection: Lambert Conformal Conic Distance Units: meters Horizontal datum Name: North American Datum of 1927 Ellipsoid Name: Clark 1866 [Summary provided by WRI]. KEYWORD: land management, settlements, continent, arctic, global forest watch, settled land, land claims, boundary surveys, gis, north america, canadian land claims, boundaries, human dimensions, cultural features, polar, unsettled land, earth science, land use, land cover, land tenure, usa, nasa, attitudes,preferences,behavior, administrative divisions, map coverage, canada, infrastructure, buildings, political divisions, geographic region, 
TITLE: BOREAS TGB-07 RAINWATER HERBICIDE AND ORGANOCHLORINE CONCENTRATION DATA. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BOREAS TGB-07 team measured the concentration and flux of several agricultural pesticides in air and rainwater samples in order to determine the associated yearly deposition rates. This data set contains information on the rainwater concentration of seven herbicides [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacidic_acid (2,4-D), bromoxynil, dicamb, 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA), triallate, trifluralin, and diclop-methyl] known to appear in the atmosphere of the Canadian prairies. Also, the concentration of three herbicides (atrazine, alaclor and metolachlor), two groups of insecticides (lindane and breakdown products and dichlro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT) and breakdown products), and several polychlorinated biphenyls commonly used in the central United States were measured. All of these chemicals are reported, in the literature, to be transported in the atmosphere. Many have been reported to occur in boreal and arctic food chains. The sampling was carried out from June 16 to August 13, 1993 and May 4 to July 20, 1994 at the BOREAS site in the Prince Albert National Park (Waskesiu).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, 2,4-d, trifluralin, echo, metolachlor, eosdis, precipitation, earth science information partners program, the boreal ecosystem-atmosphere study, north america, triallate, dicamb, earth science, pesticides, pcbs, usa, nasa, field investigation, alaclor, rain gauges, bromoxynil, mcpa, dry deposition, atmospheric transport, earth observing system data information system, canada, atrazine, ambient air, esip, diclop-methyl, boreas, 
TITLE: Rand Corporation Mean Monthly Global Snow Depth. ABSTRACT: All available monthly snow depth climatologies were integrated by the Rand Corporation, in the early 1980s, into one global (excluding Africa and South America) digital data set gridded at 4 degrees latitude by 5 degrees Longitude. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers monthly climatologies were a primary data source. For data-sparse areas such as China, Greenland, the Arctic and Antarctica, special Rand methodologies were used: empirical evaluation of total precipitation, weather source regions, latitude, temperature, terrain and annual snow depth data. Monthly ice-pack limits from U.S. Navy Oceanographic Office were used to extend the zero snow accumulation line over the oceans. These mean monthly data can be used strictly as a climatological summary or for systematic comparison with simulations from any general circulation model (GCM), or for initiating GCM calculations. Data report copies are also available. The global grid is too coarse to pick up snow accumulation in Africa and South America, but no more than two grid points are involved in these areas.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, gridded data, polar, snowpack, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, noaa, precipitation, global land, snow cover, model input data, snow, global change, climatology, geographic region, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow depth, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Yearly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Polar system boundary based on arctic and sub-arctic vegetation cover (1993-2005). ABSTRACT: The Polar System boundary for the MA has been delineated through the occurrence of arctic vegetation as defined by McGuire's vegetation coverage. This coverage has been modified slightly to be used within the MA. The ESRI DCW international boundary dataset was used to provide a more detailed coastline, and land pixels classified as ocean, have been replaced by the majority surrounding cells. Classes extracted from McGuire map include ice, barrens, and tundras (frostrate, graminoid, and forest). Lakes and non-arctic vegetation were excluded. Antarctica, as delineated in the ESRI DCW dataset, is included as a final category. McGuire's vegetation map was created in order to better delineate arctic and subarctic vegetation types important in the study of vegetation feedbacks to climate in high latitude ecosystems at the finest scale available. Because most of the global maps have highly aggregated vegetation types, they used continental or regional scale maps when possible and used a few of the global maps for ice and lake cover. The Alaska region is based on Fleming (1997), which had one "tundra" category for all of interior and southern Alaska. The "tundra" category was replaced in all parts of the state with the exception of the North Slope and the Seward Peninsula with background vegetation from the USGS 1 km spatial resolution Land Cover dataset, which was crosswalked to the tundra types in our study. The North Slope (Muller et al. 1999) and Seward Peninsula (Thayer-Snyder, 2000) coverages were generated from Landsat MSS data. Eurasian vegetation was based on Belov (1990). 1 km IGBP data was used to differentiate the "woodland tundra" category in this region. Western Eurasian vegetation was based on Melillo et al (1993) with enhanced temperate deciduous vegetation. Canadian vegetation was based on the 1 km Land Cover vegetation dataset from the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing, which was prepared from multi-temporal AVHRR data (Cilhar and Beaubien, 1998). Lakes were taken from the IGBP dataset, the Melillo et al. classification, and the 1 km Canadian vegetation dataset. The ice category was also from the Melillo et al vegetation map and was not altered. Purpose: Delineates the spatial extent of the polar system boundary for use within the MA.. KEYWORD: vegetation index, advanced very high resolution radiometer, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, montane habitats, vegetation, vegetation cover, vegetation species, land use, land cover, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, arctic oscillation, climate indicators, geographic region, avhrr, teleconnections, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Canadian Rivers Data Set. ABSTRACT: This data set contains daily river discharge rates for 20 rivers, and depth for one river, in Arctic Canada between 1943 and 1989. The data were obtained from Environment Canada, Water Resources Branch.. KEYWORD: nsidc, environmental monitoring, norman wells, burnside river, arctic, water level gauges, usa, noaa, cambridge bay, coppermine river, gordon river, inman river, trail valley creek, north america, demster hwy, discharge, ground stations, bosworth creek, terrestrial hydrosphere, ec, flow, ground-based observations, gauge, hydrology, streams, river basin, stream gauges, office of polar programs, national science foundation, big river, surface water, anderson river, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, water depth, canada, firth river, arcss019, copper creek, carnwath river, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, continent, environment canada, rengleng river, usa, nsf, monitoring techniques, inuvik, babbage river, akiavik, ft. mcpherson, hydrometeorology, rivers, polar, freshwater creek, peel river, fixed observation stations, earth science, ceos, caribou creek, hans creek, arctic red river, tree river, mackenzie river, rivers, streams, egg river, 
TITLE: Dataset of CTD, XBT and XCTD from the Nth Chinese Antarctic and Arctic Research Expedition, Year 1984-2005. ABSTRACT: Datasets of CTD, XBT,and XCTD are from the Nth Chinese Antarctic and Arctic Research Expedition from 1984 to 2005. Datasets are available, total 667MB.NADC provides copy by offline.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, xbt, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, amd, cn, polar, salinity, xctd, density, earth science, ceos, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, prydz bay, water depth, ocean, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, adcp, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Daily Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Late Quaternary Climatic & Vegetation History of the Alaskan North Slope: Calibration of Modern Data. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: "Late Quaternary Climatic & Vegetation History of the Alaskan North Slope: Calibration of Modern Data" is a dataset that describes the vegetational history of northwestern Alaska; reconstructs past climate during this period based on palynological and other geological data, and compares these paleoclimatic interpretations to a regional model of long-term variations of large-scale controls of climate (e.g. insolation, ice volume, atmospheric composition). The purpose of these data is to examine the vegetation and climate history of far northern Alaska over the last 18,000 years as a means of improving knowledge about terrestrial-climate systems inter-actions in low arctic settings, thereby better enabling determination of possible responses of arctic ecosystems to proposed global warming. Collection Organization: University of Washington Collection Methodology: Analyze lake sediments from a suite of sites located in four different tundra settings of the Alaskan North Slope. Calibrate pollen, moss spores, and lignins deposited in modern sediments with surrounding vegetation and climatic parameters to assess their ability to accurately reconstruct past environments. Apply those calibrations to a set of fossil records chosen during the modern sampling. Collection Frequency: Phase II now continuing Update Characteristics: N A LANGUAGE: English ACCESS AVAILABILITY: Data Center: University of Washington Dissemination Media: Diskette Access Instructions: Contact the data center Access Restrictions: None. KEYWORD: arctic climate, continent, paleovegetation, pollen, cenozoic, ecological dynamics, arctic, terrestrial-climate systems, vegetation, paleoclimate, usa, usda, united states of america, north america, paleo stop date, alaska, quaternary, land and freshwater resources, land records, climate change, polar, models, earth science, agriculture and food security, phanerozoic, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, paleo start date, climate history, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: Biodiversity of Antarctic Fungi. ABSTRACT: Continental Antarctica is considered an extreme terrestrial environment, which can be colonized only by microorganisms with high level of adaptation. Microbiological investigations in the southern cold temperate to Polar Regions have been concentrated largely on the sub-Antarctic islands, the Antarctic Peninsula and the McMurdo Dry Valleys region of Southern Victoria Land. The studies suggest a low diversity of indigenous fungi in continental Antarctica with around 150 taxa recognized in the literature. The purpose of this research is to study the diversity of Antarctic fungi. This data represent diversity of Antarctic fungi isolated from samples of soil from Windmill Islands, Antarctica such as Thalla Valley, SSSI17, Wilkes Station, Whitney Point, Casey Station and Peterson Island. All material was collected at various locations in December 2001, February 2002 and 2004. A total of 10 fungi species were isolated which 5 represent Hyphomycetes, two Ascomycetes, one Coelomycete, one Zygomycete and one yeast. The main species isolated were Cadophora malorum, Geomyces cretaceous and Thelebolus sp. A variety of fungi and yeast were encountered in soil samples in different localities: Aureobasidium sp., Antarctomyces sp., Mucor sp., Mrakia frigida, Trichosporiella cerebriformis, and Phoma sp. Ten fungal taxa were identified. Nine different genera were recorded. The majority were Hyphomycetes, but Ascomycetes, Coelomycetes and Zygomycetes were also isolated. Hyphomycetes appear to dominate the fungal flora of Windmill Islands. Higher numbers and types of fungi were isolated from soil around Thala Valley, where 8 taxa were detected. The most commonly encountered taxa including Aureobasidium sp., Cadophora malorum and Geomyces cretaceus. Isolates obtained here included of taxa not isolated from other sites. Trichosporiella cerebriformis, Mucor sp. and unidentified sp. 9 were isolated only from Thala Valley. The isolation of Trichosporiella cerebriformis from Thala Valley represents a first record from continental Antarctica. Other taxa recovered included Antarctomyces sp. and Mrakia frigida. Microfungi isolated mainly from mineral soils from Whitney Point included Aureobasidium sp., Cadophora malorum, Geomyces cretaceus, Antarctomyces sp., Thelebolus sp. and Mrakia frigida. Isolated fungal taxa appear non-uniformly distributed throughout the sampling region. Only Cadophora malorum and Mrakia frigida were isolated from SSSI-17. Geomyces cretaceus, Antarctomyces sp. and Thelebolus sp. were found in samples from Peterson Island. Three taxa were found at contaminated sites at Casey Station and four taxa were detected from soils from Wilkes Station. Basidiomycetous-type yeast, Mrakia frigida occurred in four localities; it was isolated from soil taken at Thala Valley, SSSI17, Whitney Point and contaminated sites at Wilkes Station. Geomyces cretaceus was isolated frequently and from a wide range of habitats, including the harsh environment of mineral soils near Casey Station and Wilkes Station.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, windmill islands, casey station, ecological dynamics, slime molds, yeasts, truffles, amd, my, protists, biodiversity functions, soils, peterson island, thalla valley, polar, soil sampler, community dynamics, whitney point, earth science, ceos, land surface, biosphere, antarctica, wilkes station, fungi, phytophthora, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Soil Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes soil temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: arws, continent, polar, amd, us, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, temperature probes, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, automatic remote weather station, temperature, amd, soil temperature, geographic region, soils, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Gas Chromatography Data for Crude Oils, Condensates and Rock Extracts From Canadian and Selected International Sedimentary Basins. ABSTRACT: This data set includes gas chromatograms obtained from GC-FID analyses of mainly gasoline range (i-pentane to n-octane range) and saturated hydrocarbons fractions (>n-decane) of crude oils, condensates and rock organic extracts. Compound distribution patterns and a variety of compound ratios (based on compound relative or normalized abundance) are commonly used in organic geochemistry and petroleum studies to characterize crude oils, bitumens or dispersed sedimentary organic matter, and in oil-oil and oil-source correlation studies. These data have been utilized in petroleum system analysis applied to exploration, petroleum engineering optimization and environmental impacts mitigation in most Canadian and some international sedimentary basins. The data have been collected using various gas chromatograph (GC) flame ionization detector (FID) equipment, quantified using PE Nelson client server software with quantification results verified by a technologist. These data are used in the determination of: geochemical composition of crude oils and rock extracts, oil-oil correlation, oil-source correlation, oil alteration, biodegradation, thermal maturation, petroleum system analysis, petroleum source potential, petroleum exploration, energy assessment, environmental geology, petroleum production engineering. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, franklinian geosyncline, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, williston basin, liquid fractionation, normal alkanes, mackenzie corridor, north america, ontario, condensates, petroleum, north pacific ocean, queen charlotte basin, geochemistry, gas chromatograms, petroleum systems, hydrocarbons, bitumen, oil analysis, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, saturated hydrocarbons, organic extracts, canada, cgdi, organic geochemistry, canada, ocean, new brunswick, michigan basin, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, natural resources, north atlantic ocean, gc analysis, western canada sedimentary basin (wcsb), nunavut, gasoline range, gas chromatography, northwest territories, united states of america, beaufort-mackenzie, rock extracts, saskatchewan, gc traces, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, polar, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, source rocks, quebec, alberta, crude oils, solvent extracts, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Cumulative Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Historical Weather Data for Alaska. ABSTRACT: The Alaska Climate Center (ACC) houses the historical weather records for the state of Alaska (mostly official U.S. Government data). These are in the form of raw handwritten data, summarized coded forms, surface and upper air weather map analyses, and selected digital data. They are stored in map sets, report sets, catalogs indexes, individual maps, bibliographies, file folders, micrographics, and microfiche. It is not a single data base, but rather an extensive repository of historical records from communities and areas throughout the state. These individual data records and reports number in the thousands. The Center publishes a series of Alaska climate technical reports and Arctic climate atlases. In addition, it serves as a repository for publications on Arctic climate-related matters.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, boundary layer, arctic, aedd, air temperature, troposphere, marine, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, united states of america, snow cover, north america, alaska, daily data, weather, humidity, radiosondes, ground stations, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, rawinsondes, surface winds, vertical location, polar, hourly data, surface, idn_node gsfc, acc, earth science, cryosphere, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, upper air, geographic region, 
TITLE: Rock glacier movement and thermal conditions, Adventdalen, Svalbard. ABSTRACT: Internal deformation of a rock glacier, with snow depth, air temperature and ground temperature in the active layer and uppermost permafrost (down to 15 m).. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, land surface, rock glaciers, tsp, ipy, ocean, frozen ground, international polar year, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Canadian Aeronautical Charting Database. ABSTRACT: Aeronautical Data Specialists maintain the Canadian Aeronautical Charting Database (CANAC) by processing Flight Information Amendments (FIAs) submitted by the Department of National Defence, Transport Canada and NAV CANADA. The FIAs contain amendments to Canada's air navigation infrastructure and are used in combination with other sources, i.e. geomatics related data, to revise and update aeronautical charts and publications.To generate aeronautical charts and the AeroD. To provide digital data to NAV CANADA, to Federal Government departments and agencies. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, nova scotia, geodetics, gravity, northern europe, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, bermuda, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, greenland, united states of america, saskatchewan, europe, polar, earth science, ceos, iceland, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, prince edward island, infrastructure, atlantic ocean, azores, 
TITLE: High-Resolution QuickBird Imagery and Related GIS Layers for Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set contains high-resolution QuickBird imagery and geospatial data for the entire Barrow QuickBird image area (156.15 W - 157.07 W, 71.15 N - 71.41 N) and Barrow B4 Quadrangle (156.29 W - 156.89 W, 71.25 N - 71.40 N), for use in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing software. The original QuickBird data sets were acquired by DigitalGlobe from 1 to 2 August 2002, and consist of orthorectified satellite imagery. Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)-compliant metadata for all value-added data sets are provided in text, HTML, and XML formats. Accessory layers include: 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS Digital Raster Graphic (DRG) mosaic images (GeoTIFF format); 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS quadrangle index maps (ESRI Shapefile format); an index map for the 62 QuickBird tiles (ESRI Shapefile format); and a simple polygon layer of the extent of the Barrow QuickBird image area and the Barrow B4 quadrangle area (ESRI Shapefile format). Unmodified QuickBird data comprise 62 data tiles in Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) Zone 4 in GeoTIFF format. Standard release files describing the QuickBird data are included, along with the DigitalGlobe license agreement and product handbooks. The baseline geospatial data support education, outreach, and multi-disciplinary research of environmental change in Barrow, which is an area of focused scientific interest. Data are provided on four DVDs. This product is available only to investigators funded specifically from the National Science Foundation (NSF), Office of Polar Programs (OPP), Arctic Sciences Section. An NSF OPP award number must be provided when ordering this data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, visible imagery, digital elevation model, surface radiative properties, arctic, infrared imagery, national snow and ice data center, infrared, usa, noaa, gis, usa, nsf, digitalglobe's quickbird, united states of america, arcss304, satellite imagery, opp0224071, north america, alaska, aspect, spectral, engineering, reflected infrared, barrow, polar, digital mapping, infrared wavelengths, mapping, maps, reflectance, panchromatic, topography, earth science, quickbird, ceos, remote sensing, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, orri, quickbird ball high resolution camera 60, multispectral, orthorectified radar imagery, visible wavelengths, quickbird, bhrc-60, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Arctic High Resolution Vertical Profiles (CTD) and Current Meter &Moorings. ABSTRACT: The Ocean-Circulation Database comprises a collection of hydrographic data gathered during various expeditions to the Arctic Sea initiated by the Alfred-Wegener-Institute. These expeditions were undertaken with research vessels Polarstern, Meteor, Knorr and others. They cover an area 65 deg. North to 85 deg. North. The data series start in 1987 and are continued to the present. Long-term measurements of currents, primarily in the area of the Wedell Sea, are gathered from current meter moorings. Data series having Depth, Current-Direction, Current-Speed, Temperature and Salinity as parameters are collected. High resolution vertical profiles (CTD) with parameters Depth, Temperature, Conductivity, Salinity and Oxygen from numerous stations in areas of interest were obtained during the various cruises. Basically the following sensors are used for data acquisition: - ADCP, RDI,Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler - AV, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter - AVP, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter incl Pressure - AVT, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter incl Temperature - AVTP, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter incl Temperature and Pressure - AVTS, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter incl Temperature and Salinity - AVTSP, AANDERAA, Rotor Current Meter incl Temperature Salinity and Pressure - ACM-2, NEIL BROWN Acoustic Current Meter - MARK IIIB, NEIL BROWN CTD Sonde - ME-OTS-CTD, Meerstechnik-Elektronik CTD Sonde The data are stored in a relational database at the Alfred-Wegener-Institute. At the current time of writing the database contains datasets of about 250 moorings and of about 300 stations. The database size (including data from the South) is about 700 MB and is continuing to grow. Data can be obtained after prior consultation with the AWI.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, arctic ocean, idn_node esrin, dlr, ctd profiles, moorings, germany, dlr, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, acoustic current meter, ocean temperature, arctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, oxygen, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, std, earth science, ceos, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, depth, water depth, acoustic doppler current profiler, ocean, circulation, oceanography, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, temperature, depth, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, adcp, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Lake Sedimentation Rates in Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: A spreadsheet compiling rates of sedimentation on small lakes in northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland from the last glacial maximum to the present. The dataset has not been updated since 1993.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Coloured contour maps of sedimentation rates at 1000 year intervals are available in Geological Survey of Canada Open File 3296 (Dyke, 1996). KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, sediments, 
TITLE: POLDER Parasol Level-2 Radiation Budget collocated subset along CloudSat track. ABSTRACT: This is the POLDER Parasol Level-2 Radiation Budget Subset, collocated with the CloudSat track. The subset is processed at the A-Train Data Depot of the GES DISC, NASA. The algorithm first converts the original POLDER binary data, which is Level-2 but nevertheless in a sinusoidal grid, into HDF4 format, and thus stores the full-sized data in HDF4. Then, it calculates the CloudSat ground track coordinates, and proceeds to extract the closest POLDER grid cells. Along with the extraction, the algorithm re-orders the subset grid cells in a line-by-line fashion, so that the output subset is in array format and resembles a swath. This array has a cross-track dimension of 11 columns. That makes about 200-km-wide coverage. All original parameters are preserved in the subset. As it is collocated with CloudSat, the subset is automatically collocated with CALIPSO as well.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, parasol, shortwave radiation, arctic, polder, clouds, eosdis, a-train data depot, earth science information partners program, humidity, atdd, albedo, cloud top pressure, radiative flux, polar, reflectance, cloud reflectance, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, ceos, cloud optical depth, thickness, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, cloud amount, frequency, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, esip, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, polarization, directionality of the earth's reflectance, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Barium Concentrations, 1993. ABSTRACT: This data set includes measurements of barium concentrations in samples collected during five oceanographic cruises in the Arctic Ocean in 1993. Investigators collected water samples with Niskin, 10-L BIO, and high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles. Barium concentrations were determined in the laboratory using isotope-dilution inductively coupled plasma quadrupole mass spectrometry. For detailed information about each cruise, refer to the documentation that accompanies the data files. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, arctic ocean, niskin bottles, onr aasert n00014-9311093, arctic, barium, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss102, canada basin, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, trace elements, onryipn000149310318, eurasian basin, mass spectrometry, ocean tracers, onraasertn000149311093, barents sea, north pacific ocean, polar, bering sea, ocean chemistry, ctd rosette, arctic system science data coordination center, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, beaufort sea, dissolved barium, adcc, bathymetry, seafloor topography, laptev sea, water bottles, ships, national science foundation, water depth, ocean, oceans, onr yip n00014-9310318, geographic region, chukchi sea, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Canadian Electronic Distance Measurement (EDM) Calibration Baselines. ABSTRACT: The Geodetic Survey Division (GSD) provides precise standard measurements at 44 Electronic Distance Measurement (EDM) calibration baseline sites across Canada. GSD is responsible for the measurement, analysis and publication of adopted values for the EDM calibration baselines. An agency in each of the provinces is responsible for the construction, maintenance and access policies for sites within their geographic area. Local surveyors use the EDM calibration baselines to test and standardize their distance measuring instruments, thus avoiding discrepancies when various local surveys join together. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, edm calibration baseline, gcmd, mekometer, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, geodimeter, nunavut, northwest territories, measurement, boundary surveys, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, electronic traversing, 
TITLE: 2006 Zhongshan station earth tide data. ABSTRACT: This is Laseaman hills earth tide data from March to November 2006 by using Lacoste ET gravimeter.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, zhonshan station, fixed observation stations, arctic, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, antarctica, gravity, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, lrgm, lacoste-romberg gravity meter, 
TITLE: The dataset of AWS on the cruise during the 1st Chinese Arctic Research Expedition in 1999. ABSTRACT: During the first voyage of Chinese National Arctic Research Expedition,we used an automatic station to get the weather information, including pressure, cloud, temperature, humidity and precipitation. Every one hour the program wrote the weather data to hard disk.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, bering sea, arctic ocean, polar, atmospheric temperature, atmospheric phenomena, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, clouds, automated weather system, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, precipitation, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, aws, north pacific ocean, air quality, 
TITLE: Upper-Air Data for Significant Levels from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The UADSL data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include air temperature, geopotential height, humidity, pressure, and winds for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, altitude, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, humidity, ground stations, europe, surface winds, polar, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, uadsl, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, water vapor, upper air, geographic region, eurasia, 
TITLE: Time Series of Seasonally Frozen Ground Depth in the Russian Arctic, 1930-1990. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of seasonally frozen ground depth measurements based on soil temperatures in the Russian Arctic. Seasonal freezing and thawing processes in cold regions play a major role in ecosystem diversity, productivity, and the Arctic hydrological system. Long-term changes in seasonal freeze and thaw depths are also important indicators of climate change. Investigators collected data from 211 ground-based stations. The record extends from 1930 to 1990 and includes seasonal freeze depths derived from soil temperature data that are averaged yearly. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, arc-0229766, russia, opp-0229766, thermometers, ground stations, europe, polar, earth science, cryosphere, arctic soils, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, arcss166, eastern europe, seasonally frozen ground, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Canadian NAD27 - NAD83 Transformation Package (NTv2). ABSTRACT: The National Transformation package (NTv2) includes interpolation software and grid shift data that provides a Canadian solution for transforming coordinates between different datums. Grid data file NTv2_0.gsb provides the capability to transform NAD27 coordinates to NAD83, or vice versa. Additionally, grid data file MAY76v20.gsb provides the capability to transform MAY76 coordinates to NAD83, or vice versa.To enable transformation of coordinates between NAD27 and NAD83, or MAY76 and NAD83. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, datum, grs80, continent, newfoundland and labrador, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, latitude, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, ntv2_0.gsb, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, may76v20.gsb, surveying, clarke 1866, yukon territory, reference systems, longitude, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, land surface, quebec, nad27, alberta, national transformation version 2, ntv2, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, grid, nad83, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Beaufort and Arctic Storms Experiment (BASE) Model Forcing and Data for the GEWEX Cloud System Study Data Integration for Model Evaluation (GCSS-DIME). ABSTRACT: The Beaufort and Arctic Storms Experiment (BASE) study was a Canadian-led international field campaign to study the weather systems occurring in southern Beaufort Sea and surrounding areas of the Arctic near the outlet of the MacKenzie River. A combination of two aircraft, two Dopler radars, enhanced rawinsonde and other surface weather observations made measurements from 1 September through 13 October 1994 to understand weather systems, their clouds and their impact on the regional climate of the MacKenzie River Basin. The experimental region extends approximately from 60N to 75N latitude and from 210E to 230E longitude. The BASE Project Homepage provides further information on BASE and the availability of data collected. The data presented here are from 1 Sep 1994 to 13 Oct 1994 and cover a region from 60N to 75N latitude and from 150W to 130W longitude. The data for this experiment is under Working Group 5 (Polar Clouds) of the GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) is to improve the parameterization of precipitating convective cloud systems in global climate models (GCMs) and numerical weather prediction models through an improved physical understanding of cloud system processes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, atmospheric temperature, surface radiative properties, arctic, cloud precipitable water, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, visible radiance, precipitation, ncep, thermal properties, ozone abundance, north america, noaa-12, alaska, gewex, convair cv-580, spectral, engineering, humidity, international satellite cloud climatology project, infrared radiance, rawinsondes, ground-based observations, models, gewex cloud system study data integration for model evaluation, infrared wavelengths, relative humidity, surface pressure, wind speed, cloud optical depth, thickness, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, cloud forcing, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, visible wavelengths, ocean, canada, water vapor, global energy and water cycle experiment, limited area models, single column models, geographic region, beaufort and arctic storms experiment, gcss-dime, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, altitude, sea level pressure, special sensor microwave, imager, clouds, air temperature, ozone, tovs, geopotential height, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, united states of america, precipitable water, isccp, cloud top pressure, radiance, surface winds, polar, doppler radar, reflectance, cloud top temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, land surface, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, ssm, i, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, esip, base, 
TITLE: Resource Allocation and Allometry of Plant Growth at Selected Sites in the Arctic: 2003-2005 Growing Seasons. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of seven data files containing measurements from Arctic field sites during the summer months from 5 July 2003 to 5 August 2005 as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions (LAII) International Tundra Experiment (ITEX). Investigators designed this research, which compares an extensive range of vegetation types that exists in widely-separated sites, to help identify the relative vulnerability of different vegetation types, plant functional types, and species to climate change and other forms of disturbances. They evaluated specific parameters to improve understanding of the broad patterns of vegetation change and vegetation function across the Arctic and quantify the constraints on the patterns of growth of arctic-plant feedbacks to the Arctic System. The research sites are located in Alaska, USA; Abisko, Sweden; and Svalbard, Norway. Data are in Microsoft Excel (.xls) format, viewable with spreadsheet software. Data are distributed as an approximately 575 KB compressed file and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, tdr, alpine, tundra, respiration rate, ecological dynamics, lter, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, atmospheric pressure measurements, plant respiration, photosynthesis, sweden, carbon, alaska, soil temperature, ground stations, ground-based observations, vegetation index, vegetation description, vegetation cover, toolik lake, paddus, northern europe, biosphere, nutrient cycling, itex, frozen ground, tundra ecosystems, nsf, opp, continent, arctic ecosystem, north atlantic ocean, photosynthesis chamber, air temperature, visible spectrometer, usa, nsf, soil temperature probe, soils, opp-0352897, europe, polar, cryosphere, adventdalen, arcss164, net ecosystem productivity, time domain reflectometry probe, global positioning system, atmospheric pressure, norway, arctic long term ecological research site, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, vegetation species, north america, nep, latnjajaure, tundra vegetation, par, gpp, svalbard and jan mayen, gross primary productivity, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, gps, ecosystem functions, normalized difference vegetation index, vegetation distribution, primary production, abisko, ocean, spectrometers, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, toolik lter, vegetation, alaskan north slope, arcss, laii, itex, long-term ecological research, scandinavia, united states of america, ecosystem respiration, ndvi, international tundra experiment, vegetation types, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, imnavait creek, arctic lter, vegetation classification, soil water content, atlantic ocean, arc lter, volumetric water content, 
TITLE: MSU Daily Oceanic Precipitation with Limb93 Correction V001 (MSUOP) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: Section 1. General Description Spencer and Christy (1990) demonstrated that accurate estimates of global atmospheric temperatures could be derived from the Microwave Sounding Units flown on NOAA's TIROS-N series of satellites. The MSU's have been continuously operating for more than 14 years collecting measurements of the thermal emission of radiation by molecular oxygen at four frequencies near 60 GHz. The four MSU channels have contribution functions (CF's) determined by their wavelength and the atmospheric profile of oxygen. MSU channel 1 has a CF peak near the surface, and is influenced strongly by temperature and liquid water near the surface. The channel 2 CF is dominated by a wide peak near 50 kPa. Channel 3 peaks near the tropopause (25 kPa) and the Channel 4 CF has a somewhat sharper peak in the lower stratosphere (7 kPa). Spencer and Christy (1992 a,b) demonstrated that the MSU calibrations have been very stable, with a precision of monthly satellite measurements of 0.01 deg C for the global mean. A. Oceanic Precipitation Data set. The oceanic precipitation estimates follow the method of Spencer (1993). Oceanic precipitation is estimated by increased warming in MSU channel 1 over a threshold. The increased warming is attributable to emission by liquid water in the lower troposphere. Warming due to air mass differences are removed using information from the MSU channel 2 3 retrieval. The precipitation estimate has been calibrated into mm per day rainfall using eight years of rain gauge data from tropical island locations. A climatological ice mask has been used to screen out anomalous precipitation over ice covered ocean. Likewise, the maximum value allowed has been set at 99.9 mm day to further screen out any remaining ice influence. Also, because this method only works in the Tropics and mid-latitudes, the retrieval is only calculated for latitudes 60 S to 60 N. Spencer (1993) discusses the calibration and demonstrates there is good agreement between the MSU precipitation estimates and previous climate rainfall data sets. Because the algorithm methodology uses all orbits in a 24 hour period to calculate the rainfall estimate, no diurnal information is available in this data set. B. MSU Calibration. The Limb93 precipitation retrievals use calibrated MSU data. The MSU brightness temperatures for all four channels were linearly calibrated using the radiometric counts measured viewing the earth scene as compared to the difference between the radiometric measurement while viewing a warm calibration load and a similar view of deep space (assumed to be 2.5K). For information on the calibration procedure, the user is referred to the TOVS MSU Pathfinder User's Guide. Section 2. MSU LIM93 Oceanic Precipitation Data File Structure The MSU Limb93 data files are given in HDF structure. Every file contains 365 Scientific Data Sets (366 for leap years), one for each day of the year. Each SDS contains a two dimensional data set, the x dimension is longitude and the y dimension is latitude. The grid is composed of 144 (longitude) by 72 (latitude) 2.5 by 2.5 degree grid boxes. The first grid box is centered at 88.75 N 178.75 W. The data structure for the SDS data is int16, and the data are given in tenth of mm day of rainfall. Land areas, areas at high latitudes (above 60 degrees), and grid boxes with missing data have a value of -999.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, television infrared observation satellite-n, arctic, open-source project for a network data access protocol, msu, noaa-10, precipitation, microwave sounding unit, noaa-12, noaa-11, tiros-n, spectral, engineering, rain, oceanic precipitation, limb93, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, ocean, daily, amd, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, gosic, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, opendap, indian ocean, global, troposphere, eosdis, earth science information partners program, microwave, vertical location, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, noaa-9, noaa-6, noaa-7, dods, esip, atlantic ocean, distributed oceanographic data system, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Global Landsat 5 TM Mosaic Tiles. ABSTRACT: Orthorectified Landsat 5 TM imagery is now available for the entire world. The pixel size or resolution is 28.5 meters. Bands used are: 7 (mid-infrared light) displayed as red, 4 (near-infrared light) displayed as green and 2 (visible green light) displayed as blue. Search under Landsat 5 TM mosaics to view and use some of these mosaics. Please note that some of these large area mosaics are at reduced resolution. These Landsat 5 TM Tile mosaics are freely available on-line, via ResMap, and can be viewed using a standard Internet browser or directly in GIS CAD Office applications, with the use of free plug-ins available from www.ermapper.com (downloads section). Off-line data is available by contacting Spatial Mapping Ltd.The objective of the global Landsat 5 project is to produce a complete set of cloud-free (less than 10% were possible) orthoimages covering the global landmass using Thematic Mapper (TM) data from the Landsat-5 satellite. These large raster datasets are instantly accessible via URL to end users on their desktop applications, without the requirement to download, convert or enhance the data prior to its use. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, guatemala, venezuela, northern hemisphere, argentina, jamaica, north america, ontario, dominican republic, south america, spectral, engineering, glacial landforms, processes, caribbean sea, north pacific ocean, thermal infrared, cuba, near infrared, infrared wavelengths, nova scotia, fluvial landforms, processes, satellite altitude, vegetation cover, australia, biosphere, indonesia, thermal infrared imagery, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, hudson bay, canada, ocean, central america, orbital characteristics, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, western hemisphere, indian ocean, chile, ecuador, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, brazil, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, costa rica, nunavut, peru, northwest territories, forest composition, vegetation structure, vegetation cover abundance, panama, united states of america, saskatchewan, thermal imagery, platform characteristics, ndvi, sensor counts, st vincent and the grenadines, yukon territory, colombia, vertical location, polar, haiti, great lakes, pacific ocean, australia, new zealand, earth science, ceos, el salvador, land surface, quebec, alberta, mexico, coastal landforms, processes, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: TASC: The Role of Cross Shelf Exchange Processes in Controlling Seasonal Population Dynamics. ABSTRACT: The primary objective of this subtask of the TASC programme, is to examine the role of NSDW in a) facilitation colonization of the temperate northeast Atlantic rim ecosystem by C. finmarchicus which is essentially a sub-Arctic species in terms of its global distribution and b) potentially providing a link or teleconnection between the various ecosystems thereby leading to a degree of synchrony in their responses to climatic forcing. As part of this programme, investigators were researching the following topics: 1) Overwintering, across shelf advection and spring spawning in Shetland-Faroe and southeastern Icelandic waters 2) Overwintering, advection and spring spawning south and southwest of Iceland 3) Analysis of historical time series data 4) Generation pattern and switching along the Norwegian midshelf 5) Modelling the cross-shelf dispersal of Calanus. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, biological classification, crustaceans, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, ocean mixed layer, continental shelves, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, aquatic ecosystems, species life history, advection, international geosphere-biosphere programme, cpr, pelagic habitat, northern europe, biosphere, modelling, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, oceans, geographic region, shelf processes, continent, british isles, animals, invertebrates, north atlantic ocean, continental rises, slopes, calanus finmarchicus, tasc, migratory rates, routes, continental margins, scandinavia, thermohaline circulation, overwintering, plankton, seafloor topography, species recruitment, coastal habitat, igbp, europe, polar, faeroe islands, united kingdom, community dynamics, zooplankton, norwegian sea, earth science, iceland, usa, nasa, continuous plankton recorder, population dynamics, acoustic doppler current profiler, species, population interactions, calanus, norway, atlantic ocean, trans-atlantic study of calanus, adcp, ocean circulation, globec, 
TITLE: Snow and ice chemistry data from Vestfonna, Svalbard from April 2007 to May 2008 (Finland). ABSTRACT: Snow pits 2007: the data from 2 snow pits (main summits of Vestfonna ice cap) include a description of snow physical properties (stratigraphy, density) and major ions chemistry. Shallow ice cores 2007: the data from 2 ice cores drilled at the 2 main summits of Vestfonna ice cap include density and chemical measurements (major ions) of the ice. Snow pit 2008: snow stratigraphy and chemistry (major ions) from a snow pit on lake (Kinnvika, Nordaustlandet) Snow pits 2009: the data from 4 snow pits (main summits of Vestfonna ice cap + lake nearby Kinnivika) include a description of snow physical properties (stratigraphy, density) and major ions chemistry. Shallow ice core 2009: the data from an ice core drilled at the main summit of Vestfonna ice cap include density and chemical measurements (major ions) of the ice.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, active layer, snow melt, arctic, north atlantic ocean, ion chromatographs, flasks, firn, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, snow cover, international polar year, snow, ice chemistry, snow, ice, barents sea, snow density, polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, coring devices, field investigation, glaciers, ice sheets, water bottles, ipy, ocean, ion chemistry, frozen ground, atlantic ocean, snow density cutter, geographic region, 
TITLE: DMSP-F8 SSM I Pathfinder Global Level 2 Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: These sea ice concentrations have been generated by applying the NASA Team algorithm to DMSP F8 SSM I brightness temperature observations from 19 GHz (vertical and horizontal), 37- and 22 GHz vertical frequencies, calculating two gradients for use as weather filters. Global coverage is provided, but sea ice concentrations are only derived for ocean, ice, and possible ice surfaces poleward of 35 degrees latitude, from 1 August 1987 through 30 November 1988. In the Northern Hemisphere, where data are not filtered due to weather effects, first-year and multi-year concentrations (in percent) are calculated; total ice concentration is taken as the sum of these two. Only total ice is calculated for the Southern Hemisphere. 25 km swath data are in HDF, available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, ice, usa, noaa, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, sea ice, polar, amd, us, pathfinder, si daac, sea ice concentrations, southern ocean, nsidc daac, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, hdf, usa, nasa, ssm, i, passive microwave, daac, earth observing system data information system, ocean, snow ice, oceans, amd, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Monthly L3 Global Snow Water Equivalent EASE-Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. These Level-3 Snow Water Equivalent (SWE) data sets contain SWE data and quality assurance flags mapped to Northern and Southern Hemisphere 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grids (EASE-Grids). Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, swe, swemap, eos pm-1, eos, echo, global, usa, noaa, snow pack, eosdis, aqua, water resources, water storage, earth science information partners program, imagery, ae_dysno, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, amsr-e, radiance, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, water supply, usa, nasa, passive microwave, daac, nasa, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: The sea surface temperature surveyed in the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China (1991 - 1992). ABSTRACT: During 1991 12 01-1991 12 29, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature in the cruise of the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Detailed analysis of 35 most common species found in Long Island Sound benthic communities, USGS OFR 00-304. ABSTRACT: This GIS layer, which focuses on benthic communities, was developed as part of a cooperative project between the University of New Haven, the Connecticut DEP, and the U.S. Geological Survey. Benthic communities are an integral component of the ecology of Long Island Sound. Understanding the role that spatial heterogeneity plays in the dynamic of benthic landscapes may be a key to developing a better understanding of the estuarine ecology and the impacts of human activity. The purpose of providing this data layer is to help establish a regional framework for developing a more extensive GIS for benthic communities in Long Island Sound that can be used for education, research, and environmental management. This GIS layer provides the location where samples from Pellegrino and Hubbard were summarized to provide detailed analysis of 35 common species found in Long Island Sound benthic communities.. KEYWORD: mollusks, biological classification, crustaceans, pandora gouldina, arthropods, arginina longicornis, ecological dynamics, u. s. geological survey, aricidea jeffersyii, steblospio benedicti, woods hole field center, polydora websteri, ampelisca vadorum, environmental assessments, points, corophium acheruscum, yoldia lamata, assessment, clymenella zonali, cirratulus cirratus, north america, arcview, paraonis fulgens, cirratulus grandis, estuaries, human dimensions, aquatic ecosystems, pitar morrhuana, biology, coastal and marine geology team, ofr 00-304, infauna, unciola irrorata, biosphere, ships, community structure, benthic habitat, coastal and marine geology program, pellegrino, asabellides oculata, amphareta arctica, oceans, prionospio heterobranchia, usgs, mytilus edulis, lepidontus squamotus, usa, usgs, continent, telline agilis, animals, invertebrates, prionospio tenuis, university of new haven, long island sound, nephtys picta, nephtys incisa, shapefile, gis, united states of america, mulinia lateralis, mediomastus ambiseta, grab samplers, capitella capitata, coastal habitat, owenia fusiformis, leptocheirus pinguis, hubbard, erisis directus, ancanthohaustorius millsi, community dynamics, earth science, connecticut, ceos, environmental impacts, connecticut department of environmental protection, protohaustorius wigleyi, new york, coastal processes, shellfish, ampelisca abdita, estuary, pectinaria gouldi, estuarine habitat, nucula annulata, spiophanes bombyx, communities, 
TITLE: Data of biodiversity of marine bacterioplankton at Kongsfjorden in the summer of 2008. ABSTRACT: Phylogenetic diversity of the marine bacterioplankton in Kongsfjorden (Spitsbergen) was investigated through 16S rRNA gene analysis. Community fingerprint analysis by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) revealed that there was no apparent difference of bacterioplankton community composition between sampling locations in the fjord. A higher biodiversity was observed in bottom water of Stn. 3 in the central part of the fjord. By 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis, sequences detected both in surface and bottom water of Station 3 fell into eight putative divisions, including Proteobacteria (Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta), Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Verrucomicrobia and unidentified bacteria, in addition to chloroplasts of algae. Sequences representing Planctomycetes were only observed in bottom water. Compared to the preponderance of clones representing Gammaproteobacteria (36.5%) and Alphaproteobacteria (29.4%) in bottom water, Alphaproteobacteria (43.6%) and algae (27.7%) constituted two dominant fractions in surface water. Cloned sequences showed 82.1 to 100% similarity to those described sequences.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, bacteria, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, biosphere, bacteria, archaea, ocean, airboat, plankton, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MCTD data in the sea ice covered area of the Canada Basin, 2003 during the 2nd Chinese Arctic Research Expedition. ABSTRACT: The 2nd Chinese Arctic Expedition conducted in summer of 2003. Temperature and salinity of the upper ice-covered ocean were observed by MCTD deployed at floe and boat.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, field surveys, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Termination II NADW Production Data. ABSTRACT: All file names begin with core name. All cores except V29-202 refer to cores collected on cruise EW93-02. MST indicates mult-track sensor data. "Wue.iso" or "iso-wue" refers to isotope data on the benthic foraminifera Cibicidoides wuellerstorfi. Np-R refers to the planktonic foraminifer N. pachyderma (right-coiling). Faunal counts are included with and without P-D integrade values. The simple census file includes counts of sample splits - two species of planktonic foraminifera are counted (the rest are lumped into other planktonics), and lithics, and benthics are counted.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, ocean cores, past global changes, igbp, arctic, usa, noaa, pages, biogenic sediments, deep water prodiction, carbon, isotopes, protists, aquatic ecosystems, amoeboids, oxygen, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, biosphere, microfauna, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, benthic habitat, water depth, ocean, nadw, oceans, geographic region, sediments, microfossils, foraminifers, c13, cenozoic, north atlantic ocean, paleoclimate, paleo start date 10,000 ybp, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, o18, quaternary, north atlantic deep water, plankton, marine sediments, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, eemian, atlantic ocean, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorology station. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, precipitation, humidity, soil temperature, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, continent, shortwave radiation, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: Conductivity-Temperature-Depth (CTD) data from the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China. ABSTRACT: Thirty-two CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay (Dec.,1991-Apr.,1992) as a supplement to the krill research program. Casts were made to 1000m or to near the bottom if shallower. In situ salinity, temperature and sigma-T are tabulated for standard depths, and shown graphically.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, amd, cn, polar, salinity, southern ocean, density, earth science, ceos, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, prydz bay, water depth, ocean, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Atlas of Coastal Habitats and Fishery Resources - Northern Quebec. ABSTRACT: This collection covers Hudson Bay, James Bay and Ungava Bay. These areas form the basis of three separate products. The three bays lie along the Quebec border north of the 50th parallel, in subarctic and arctic territory. The information included in these three products covers six themes, four of them biotic in nature (vegetation, invertebrates, fish, marine mammals) and two abiotic (habitat and zoning and uses). Each of these themes is divided into sub-themes (e.g. red algae, rainbow smelt), which are further subdivided into information classes (distribution, concentration, reproduction, oceanographic characteristics, etc.).The Habitat Management Division (HMD) of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) has developed a management tool to take advantage of knowledge of the spatio-temporal distribution of fishery resources and of the characterization of their habitats to achieve integrated management of Quebec's coastal environment. To that end, HMD has developed a geographic information system (GIS), also called FHAMIS, which is intended to manage, analyse and map data on fish habitat for purposes of: 1) habitat impact evaluation under the Fisheries Act, the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act and the Fish Habitat Policy; 2) restoration and enhancement of fish habitat; 3) implementation of initiatives under the new Oceans Act (marine protected areas, integrated coastal area management); 4) environmental emergency response (advice on the protection of habitat and resources); 5) provision of information on habitat to DFO clients (managers, scientists, NGOs, coastal communities, departments, consultants). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum (1983) Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, gcmd, arctic, ungava bay, rivers, stream habitat, marine, wetlands, red algae, james bay, northern hemisphere, north america, plants, protists, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, coastal habitat, polar, swamps, macroalgae (seaweeds), pelagic habitat, earth science, ceos, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, quebec, animals, vertebrates, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, mammals, canada, fish, estuarine wetlands, geographic region, estuarine habitat, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: IABP-POLES 2-Meter Air Temperature Data Set. ABSTRACT: The POLES Arctic Gridded 2-meter Air Temperature Data Set provides optimally interpolated 2-meter air temperatures on the EASE (Equal Area SSM I Earth) grid at intervals of 4 times daily for the years 1979 through 1992. Munoz and Martin (1995) give a full description of the optimal interpolation scheme. The EASE grid used for this data set is a subset of the rectangular grid currently being used as a standard by the POLES group and is described in Schweiger and Francis (1995). Each of the grid points is separated by 200.54 km. The geographic domain of the data set is that region defined by the coastlines surrounding the seasonal and perennial ice covered oceans and seas of the northern hemisphere. The source of the temperature observations used in the scheme consist of data from land stations, ship observations from the Comprehensive Ocean-Atmosphere Data Set (COADS), Soviet North Pole (NP) drifting ice stations, and Arctic drifting buoys. The temperature observations were taken at 2-meter heights at the land, Soviet NP and marine stations, and at heights varying from tens of centimeters to about 3 meters above the surface for the buoys. Because the ice on which the buoys rest is thick, we make the assumption that the buoy temperatures are also 2-meter air temperatures.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar exchange at the sea surface, arctic ocean, polar, atmospheric temperature, poles, surface air temperature, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, atmospheric stratification, eos, air temperature, usa, nasa, nasa, skin temperature, earth science information partners program, earth observing system, ocean, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) Observed Climate Change Impacts Database. ABSTRACT: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessement Report (AR4) Observed Climate Change Impacts Database contains observed responses to climate change across a wide range of systems as well as regions. These data were taken from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report and Rosenzweig et al. (2008). It consists of responses in the the physical, terrestrial biological systems and marine-ecosystems. The observations that were selected include data that demonstrate a statistically significant trend in change in either direction in systems related to temperature or other climate change variable, and the is for at least 20 years between 1970 and 2004, although study periods may extend earlier or later. For each observation, the data series is described in terms of system, region, longitude and latitude, dates and duration, statistical significance, type of impact, and whether or not land use was identified as a driving factor. System changes are taken from ~80 studies (of which ~75 are new since the IPCC Third Assessment Report) containing more than 29,500 data series. Observations in the database are characterized as a change consistent with warming or a change not consistent with warming, based on information from the underlying studies. The data is distributed by the Columbia University Center for Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, intergovernmental panel on climate change, el nino southern oscillation, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, usa, ciesin, ocean temperature, north atlantic oscillation, echo, north america, aquatic ecosystems, land and freshwater resources, land use change, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea surface temperature, climate change, africa, hydrology, australia, biosphere, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, permafrost, water quality, earth observing system data information system, ocean, frozen ground, erosion, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, glaciers, continent, global, air temperature, equatorial, migratory rates, routes, eosdis, new zealand, agriculture, ecology, spring peak river discharge, earth science information partners program, water quality, water chemistry, thermal stratifications, europe, ciesin, polar, ddc, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, climate, environmental protection, population dynamics, coastal processes, terrestrial biological systems, ipcc data distribution centre, ipcc, species, population interactions, ecosystems, esip, atlantic ocean, forestry, hydrologic processes, 
TITLE: Davis Strait and Baffin Bay Zooplankton (OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: These data are an OBIS formatted product derived from the Fisheries and Oceans Canada BIOCHEM database. The purpose of this study was to look at the vertical distribution of all major species of zooplankton in Baffin Bay and Davis Strait, with particular emphasis on chaetognaths and copepods (Calanus species and their copepodites in particular) using fine-scale biological samples and simultaneous temperature and salinity data. This collection includes data collected during two Hudson cruises, one between July 29 to August 3, 1980 and the second between August 7 to August 14, 1983 Plankton samples were collected using the BIONESS sampler equipped with 243u mesh nets. Profiles were from the bottom to the surface. The samples collected were preserved in 4% formaldehyde and later analysed down to species for Copepoda and genus for all other classes and phyla. A wet weight for each group was also measured. Associated chlorophyll, phaeophytin and nutrient data are available. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis. OBIS Schema concepts implemented in this data set are: DateLastModified, InstitutionCode, CollectionCode, CatalogNumber, ScientificName, BasisOfRecord, ScientificNameAuthor, FieldNumber, Collector,YearCollected, MonthCollected, DayCollected, ContinentOcean, Country, StateProvince, Locality, Longitude, Latitude, MinimumDepth, MaximumDepth, Sex, Source, Citation, LifeStage, ObservedIndividualCount. For OBIS Schema concept details see http:  www.iobis.org tech provider . KEYWORD: oithona, bioness, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, calanus hyperboreus, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, north atlantic ocean, obis, biomass dynamics, northern hemisphere, north america, metridia, copepod abundance, baffin bay, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, chaetognatha, polar, census of marine life, coml, zooplankton, pelagic habitat, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, pseudocalanus, arrow worms, ecosystem functions, calanus glacialis, canada, ocean, microcalanus, davis straight, ichthyoplankton, atlantic ocean, obis, ca, geographic region, western hemisphere, oncaea, zooplankton vertical distribution, 
TITLE: GEOSAT ERS-1 Marine Gravity Anomaly Data and Maps produced by Scripps and NOAA. ABSTRACT: Upon the release of the previously classified data from the U.S. Navy GEOSAT satellite in July 1995, researchers from Scripps Institution of Oceanography and NOAA's National Ocean Service Office of Ocean and Earth Science have created a detailed map of marine gravity anomalies from the satellite altimeter data. The satellite measured the distance from the satellite to sea surface from March 1985 to October 1986. The distance data have been processed to depict small changes in the force of gravity throughout the oceans. These changes in gravity are the result of geologic features on the ocean floor. Because the previously classified Navy data are highly accurate (the altimeter measured distances of 500 miles accurate to 1 inch), and because of the GEOSAT mission's dense coverage, the gravity anomalies provide a view of the seafloor with unprecedented detail. To make the map, the GEOSAT data was combined with data from the European Space Agency's ERS-1 Satellite. The data are useful in studies of navigation, ocean bathymetry, undersea volcanoes, plate tectontics, petroleum geology, and lithosphere structure. The raw GEOSAT data are available on 4 CD-ROMs from the National Oceanographic Data Center: "http:  www.nodc.noaa.gov" The processed marine gravity anomaly data are available from Scripps in 2-minute or 3-minute grids: "ftp:  baltica.ucsd.edu pub" The marine gravity anomaly maps and more information can be found on the World Wide Web at the National Geophysical Data Center: "http:  www.ngdc.noaa.gov mgg announcements announce_predict.html" Hardcopy posters are available for $40 (check payable to Regents of the University fo California) from Scripps: University of California at San Diego Geological Data Center-0223 9500 Gilman Drive La Jolla CA 90293-0223 [The information provided here was condensed from the NGDC WWW pages.]. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, altimeters, mid-latitude, arctic, sea floor, european remote sensing satellite-1, marine geophysics, global, usa, noaa, equatorial, ers-1, sea surface, radar altimeter, earth science information partners program, polar, vertical location, amd, us, southern ocean, gravitational field, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, antarctica, geodetic satellite, geosat, ocean, marine gravity field, dod, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, marine gravity anomaly, u.s. navy, indian ocean, 
TITLE: 1 Km Resolution Land Cover Map of Canada. ABSTRACT: Thirteen land cover classes are covered using 1 km resolution data. The land cover classes include; mixedwood forest, deciduous forest, water bodies and rivers, transitional forest, coniferous forest, arctic alpine tundra, barren lands, perennial snow or ice, agricultural cropland, rangeland and pasture, built-up areas, United States of America and Greenland, boundary lines of provinces and territories and permanent polar ice. The Canada map is at a scale of 1:6,500,000. Each provincial map is available at 1:1,000,000 and 1:2,000,000 scale.Data is used for global change research and mapping. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, mid-latitude, manitoba, british columbia, ice, none, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, rivers, stream habitat, northern hemisphere, snow cover, north america, ontario, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, atlantic provinces, mapping, nova scotia, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, biosphere, surface water, canada, cgdi, canada, snow, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, noaa poes, vegetation, crops, agriculture, surface vegetation, saskatchewan, lakes, cultural features, soils, snow, ice, avhrr, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, prince edward island, infrastructure, rivers, streams, forestry, 
TITLE: Dissolved Iron (DFe) Concentrations and Total Iron Concentrations of Profile and Surface Stations in the Southern Ocean. ABSTRACT: Dissolved iron (DFe) concentrations of 40 profile stations and 7 surface stations were measured directly on board by an automated Flow Injection Analysis (FIA) after a modified method of De Jong et al. 1998. In addition, unfiltered samples from 17 profiles and 7 surface stations were acidified and stored to determine the total Fe concentrations in the NIOZ laboratory after 6-12 months of dissolution (see table 1). Filtered (0.2m) and acidified (pH 1.8) seawater was concentrated on a column containing aminodiacetid acid (IDA). This material binds only transition metals and not the interfering salts. After washing the column with ultra pure water, the column is eluted with diluted acid. After mixing with luminol, peroxide and ammonium, the oxidation of luminol with peroxide is catalyzed by iron and a blue light is produced and detected with a photon counter. The amount of iron is calculated using a standard calibration line, where a known amount of iron is added to low iron containing seawater. Using this calibration line a number of counts per nM iron is obtained. Samples were analyzed in duplicate sample bottles, each of which was measured in triplicate, and average DFe concentrations and standard deviation are given. Concentrations of DFe measured on the NBP0901 cruise ranged from 30 pM up to 0.7 nM. The standard deviation varied between 0% and 10% (the latter being exceptional), but was generally < 5% in samples with DFe concentrations higher than 0.1nM. Since samples containing less than 0.1nM DFe are near the detection limit of the system; the standard deviation of these measurements was sometimes high (<30%). The average blank was determined at 0.024nM0.010nM and was defined as a sample loaded for 10 seconds and measured daily. The average limit of detection, 0.0090.008 was defined as 3*standard deviation of the mean blank and measured daily. To better understand the day to day variation duplicate sample bottles were measured at least 24h later. The differences between these measurements were rather large, in the order of 5-20%, while the largest differences were measured in samples with low DFe concentrations. To correct for this day to day variation a so-called lab standard sample was measured daily. All data will be corrected for the mean average of this value after the cruise and all data presented so far are uncorrected for this day to day variation. The consistency of the FIA system over the course of the day was verified using a drift standard. The drift was observed to be less than 7% and no corrections have been made for this drift. A certified SAFe standard (Johnson et al. 2007) for the long term consistency and absolute accuracy was measured at a regular basis. Preliminary results The profile from station 16 clearly shows high iron input near the PIG (Fig. 5). DFe concentrations are high throughout the entire water column and indicate a constant input of DFe into the polynya. Profile 107, which is in the central Pine Island Polynya, shows much lower values throughout the first 300 meter which can be explained by the high phytoplankton abundance in the surface water. DFe concentrations during a transect from Pine Island Glacier (PIG) (101 S,30W) through the central Pine Island Polynya in north westwards direction clearly show the high DFe concentrations near the PIG and the rapid decrease of the DFe in the polynya, especially in waters shallower than 50m (Fig. 6). Extreme low DFe values in the central polynya correlate with the biological productive area as observed from the fluorometer data and Chl a measurements.. KEYWORD: amd, nl, dynalife, geotraces, go-flo bottles, unfiltered, trace elements, r, v nathaniel b. palmer, international polar year, polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, dissolved fe, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, flow injection analysis, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, south pacific ocean, oceans, iron, amd, geographic region, r, v nbp, fia, 
TITLE: SEARCH: Quantifying Arctic Change The Unaami Data Collection. ABSTRACT: The Unaami Data Collection is a carefully selected, diverse set of over 85 multi-disciplinary time series which represent, pan-Arctic change over the last 25 years, including fisheries, biological, terrestrial, oceanic, sea ice, atmospheric and climate index data. The name Unaami derives from the Yup'ik word for "tomorrow" and is used in the Science Plan for Study of Environmental Arctic Change (SEARCH) to describe the complex suite of interrelated changes occurring throughout the Arctic. The data collection is available through a website offering interactive access to graphics, metadata, simple correlation matrix calculations and data download, at "http:  www.unaami.noaa.gov". The data was collected from published works and different individuals. Reference to the Unaami Data Collection and the original sources is requested in using this data collection. We are interested in your response and suggestions for additional entries. Please contact the Webmaster at unaami-team@noaa.gov with any comments or questions. The Unaami data collection activity is a SEARCH Project Office activity, "http:  psc.apl.washington.edu search ", supported by the NSF Arctic System Studies program and the Polar Science Center at the University of Washington. Information Technology support was provided by NOAA ESDIM.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, ecological dynamics, arctic, vegetation, usa, noaa, precipitation, wetlands, atmospheric pressure measurements, sea ice, aquatic ecosystems, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, aquatic sciences, polar, ocean chemistry, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, coastal processes, permafrost, frozen ground, oceans, ocean pressure, fisheries, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km (MOD29) data set contains fields for sea ice by reflectance, sea ice by reflectance pixel Quality Assessment (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST pixel QA, latitudes, and longitudes in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MOD10C2) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 columns by 3600 rows of global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 degree Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, 
TITLE: Nimbus-7 SMMR Polar Gridded Radiances and Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: NSIDC produces gridded brightness temperatures (TBs) on polar stereographic grids for north and south polar regions from orbital (swath) data collected by the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) flown aboard the Nimbus-7 satellite. This data set contains gridded brightness temperatures (TB) and sea ice concentrations, spanning October 1978 through August 1987, when the SMMR scanner was turned off. Brightness temperature and sea ice concentration grids have 25 x 25 km grid elements. The data were collected every other day at 6.60, 10.69, 18.00, 21.00 and 37.00 GHz. (The scanner operated only on alternate days, due to spacecraft power limitations). There are usually at least 14 days of coverage per month, although major data gaps occur in 1982, August 4th, 8th, and 16th are missing for both polar regions; in 1984, August 13th through the 23rd are missing for both polar regions. Volume 7 contains all SMMR sea ice concentrations for both polar regions, plus five months of TB grids for the north polar region. The NASA Team Algorithm (Cavalieri et al. 1984, Gloersen and Cavalieri 1986) was used to calculate ice concentrations from the TBs. Data were produced by Dr. P. Gloersen, NASA GSFC, Oceans and Ice Branch. Users note: SMMR TCT tapes comprised the input data set, unlike the one-volume SMMR CD-ROM product distributed by NSIDC in 1979. An online guide available for this data set. CD-ROM distribution currently at no charge, first priority to NASA and NASA-funded investigators.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, arctic, ice, usa, noaa, nimbus-7, north america, sea ice, spectral, engineering, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, north pacific ocean, remote sensing, passive microwave, brightness temperature, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, ocean, canada, global change, snow, ross sea, oceans, amd, geographic region, chukchi sea, continent, bellingshausen sea, sea ice concentration, north atlantic ocean, sea ice extent, labrador sea, smmr, eosdis, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, baffin bay, weddell sea, snow, ice, microwave, antarctic, barents sea, radiance, polar, bering sea, amd, us, cd-rom, southern ocean, nsidc daac, east siberian sea, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, amundsen sea, daac, laptev sea, esip, atlantic ocean, kara sea, 
TITLE: Anomalies and Normals of Mean Monthly Air Temperature from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk. ABSTRACT: The ANMMATMPA data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include anomalies and normals of mean monthly air temperature and precipitation amounts for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, precipitation anomalies, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, precipitation, russia, anmmatmpa, ground stations, europe, polar, temperature anomalies, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, anomalies, eastern europe, monthly data, geographic region, normals, eurasia, statistics, 
TITLE: CRYSYS Glacier and Ice Cap Research, Canada. ABSTRACT: Glacier and ice cap research focuses on the development of new techniques for monitoring glaciers and ice caps. This also includes continuing enhancement and access to conventional glacier information in the Canadian Glacier Inventory. 1. To determine the best combination of field sensors and satellite data to both inventory and measure volumetric and runoff changes in key glacierized areas; 2. To determine the best combination of field sensors and satellite data to perform areal measurements of snow and snow line changes in glacierized areas; 3. To characterize the long-term annual accumulation and ablation rate in key glacierized areas in and how these relate to global change; and, 4. To characterize the long-term volumetric change in stagnant ice caps in the Canadian Arctic and western Canada, and how these relate to global change. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ice velocity, spectral, engineering, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, vertical location, polar, hydrology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, ice motion, alberta, sar interferometry, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, glacier mass, balance, canada, ice depth, thickness, ice caps, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Weekly L3 Global Ascending Descending .25x.25 deg Ocean Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. Measurements of ocean variables improve our understanding of a wide variety of hydrological and radiative processes, including air-sea and air-ice interactions. The Level-2B ocean swath product (AE_Ocean) contains Sea Surface Temperature (SST) at 56 km and 38 km resolution, near-surface wind speed at 38 km and 21 km resolution, columnar water vapor at 21 km resolution, columnar cloud liquid water at 12 km resolution, and quality flags. All variables were measured over oceans and are generated from the Wentz algorithm. The Level-3 daily product (AE_DyOcn), weekly product (AE_WkOcn), and monthly product (AE_MoOcn) include SST, near-surface wind speed, columnar water vapor, and columnar cloud liquid water over oceans in a 0.25 degree by 0.25 degree grid, generated from AE_Ocean. Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, greenhouse gases, cloud precipitable water, eos, water temperature, ocean temperature, equatorial trade winds, echo, usa, noaa, liquid cloud water, columnar water vapor, aqua, cloud liquid water, imagery, global ocean, ocean water temperatures, sea surface temperature, amsr-e, vertically integrated cloud liquid water, column water vapor, remote sensing, cloud droplets, atmospheric water vapor, passive microwave, atmospheric winds, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, columnar cloud water, sea surface winds, oceans, geographic region, indian ocean, eos pm-1, clouds, sea surface wind speeds, eosdis, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, ocean heat flux, ocean thermal energy, radiance, surface winds, ocean winds, near-surface wind speeds, pacific ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, vertically integrated water vapor over oceans, daac, sea surface temperatures, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, ae_dyocn, atlantic ocean, esip, 
TITLE: The CTD dataset of a coastal ecosystem water profile in Kongsfjorden, Arctic (2008). ABSTRACT: The field investigation was carried out in Kongsfjorden. Profiles of water temperature, salinity, chlorophyll a concentrations and light within the upper 200 m water column at 5 stations (to near the seabed at stations 4 and 5) along a transect were investigated using a SBE 19-plus CTD. Water samples were collected with the depths of 0, 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 75, 100, 150 and 200 m, respectively for the purpose of the analysis of nutrients, POC, chlorophyll a, pigments, the structure and biodiversity of microbial community (bacteria and protists).. KEYWORD: polar, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, light transmission, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, water quality, water chemistry, atlantic ocean, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: N-Factor Values and Air and Ground Surface Temperatures, Kuparuk River Basin, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set includes ground surface temperatures and air temperatures measured at ten study plots within the Kuparuk River basin of north-central Alaska. Computed thaw-season 'n-factor' values are also included (the n-factor is defined as the ratio of the sum of thawing degree days at the soil-surface to that in the air). Data were collected in an effort to evaluate differences between air and ground-surface temperatures associated with different natural landcover types, and to assess the utility of the 'n-factor' concept as a tool in geocryological mapping. Detailed descriptions of field procedures and assumptions are provided in Klene (2000) and Klene et al. (2001).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsf, nsidc, thawing degree-days, continent, air temperatures, n-factors, active layer, kuparuk river basin, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, opp9612647, united states of america, land surface temperature, active layer temperatures, north america, alaska, laii-flux, soil temperature, opp-9612647, ground-based observations, polar, land surface temperatures, arctic system science data coordination center, permafrost temperatures, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, soil temperatures, arcss087, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, land temperature, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Natural spatial subsidies in continental Antarctic soil. ABSTRACT: The soils of the McMurdo Dry Valleys are hypothesized to rely on external sources of nutrients (carbon, nitrogen, etc). The importance of these spatial subsidies on productivity and biological diversity of dry valley soils was investigated over several seasons in the Garwood Valley. Sampling of the soil, microbial mats and foam from each identified landform and from Lake Colleen was undertaken for analysis of a variety of soil biological and chemical properties in order to gain an idea of the general spatial variation of these properties (before experimental work) and to determine the size of the soil microbial communities, the rates of microbial respiration and the abundance of selected invertebrate groups. Soil samples were collected and analysed to quantify carbon and nitrogen pools, potential decomposition and nitrogen release under optimal conditions and potential microbial use of a variety of test C and N substrates. The importance of spatial subsidy materials on the four different landforms was tested with the addition of lakeshore foam and algal mats at two levels of application, plus appropriate treatment controls. Pre-treatment soil samples were taken for a variety of chemical analysis to establish baseline parameters. After subsidy applications, field measurements were made of the short -term changes (over the first six days after treatment application) in in-situ microbial activity and the composition of gases being released into the atmosphere. After six days, a second set of soil samples were collected for post treatment measurements of soil community composition and diversity, potential microbial activity and decomposer processes. Soil samples were again taken 2 years later for medium term respiratory processes but also for laboratory controlled replicate experiment for in-situ confirmation of initial nitrogen limitation and later carbon limitation. Studies were in the 01 02, 02 03 and 04 05 seasons in the Garwood Valley.. KEYWORD: continent, soil moisture, water content, respiration rate, ecological dynamics, soil respiration, decomposition, field surveys, biogeochemical cycles, agriculture, biomass dynamics, photosynthesis, carbon, denitrification rate, soil temperature, soils, biodiversity functions, soil gas, air, polar, nitrogen, soil sampler, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, garwood valley, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, soil fertility, biosphere, autoanalyzer, antarctica, field investigation, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, primary production, community structure, chn analyzers, laboratory, amd, nz, organic matter, amd, geographic region, microflora, 
TITLE: ASTER On-Demand L2 Polar Surface and Cloud Classification. ABSTRACT: The ASTER On-Demand Level-2 Polar Surface and Cloud Classification product provides a classification map discriminating between different surface and cloud features over polar areas. The product aims to classify the cloud and snow-ice spectral signatures in both the visible and infrared wavelengths. The current algorithm works with data acquired during the daylight hours. An algorithm for night-time data will follow. This product will assist those studying greenhouse forcings in the polar regions where cloud cover exerts its effects on sea ice conditions, the regional ice-albedo feedbacks, the polar heat balance, and surface melting. This product will provide data used in cross-validating the MODIS cloud optical thickness and effective particle sizes, both of which impact the Earth's radiative budget. The ASTER On-Demand Level-2 Polar Surface and Cloud Classification product uses an hierarchical algorithm executed in four stages: In the first stage, the VNIR data are sub-sampled by half (15 m to 30 m) while the TIR data are sampled three times (90 m to 30 m). The SWIR data at 30 m are retained in their original resolution. The VNIR and SWIR digital numbers (DN) are normalized for solar irradiance, solar zenith angle, observation angle, and calibration coefficients. The TIRDNs are converted to temperature. In the second stage, the data are pre-classified to reduce the class ambiguity of a pixel's feature vector by using key features like coastline data, land-water mask etc. The third stage involves the use of a back-propagation neural network to aid in the resolution of feature vectors to one of nine possible classes. In the fourth stage, a spatial consistency test is performed on the classification mask and pixels deemed to be spatialy inconsistent with their neighbors are re-classified. The final product is a coded pixel map containing the following thematic classes: [1] water [2] snow ice [3] ice cloud [4] land [5] thin water cloud [6] water cloud over water [8] sea ice [12] water cloud over land [30] bare ground tundra Data Set Characteristics: Area: ~60 km x 60 km Image Dimensions: 4200 rows x 4980 columns File Size: ~42 MB Units: Thematic Projection: Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) Data Format: HDF-EOS Vgroup Data Fields: 1. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, continent, terra, lpdaac, arctic, lp daac, clouds, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ice edges, sea ice, polar, amd, us, aster, usgs, eros, cloud types, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, cloud amount, frequency, earth observing system data information system, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, amd, esip, geographic region, usgs, 
TITLE: ADEOS Earth View (EORC-037). ABSTRACT: Atmosphere Atmospheric Temperature and Water Vapor Global Distribution of Atmospheric Suspended Particles(Aerosols) Daily Image of Absorbing Aerosols over Land from TOMS Data Sources and Transport of Tropospheric Aerosols Global Cloud Properties and Water Vapor Greenhouse Gases Ocean Global Sea Surface Temperature Distribution Global Chlorophyll-a Distribution Unusual Path of the Kuroshio in Spring 1997 as Revealed by OCTS Images Land Vegetation Distribution seen from OCTS Monitoring of Global Biosphere Assessment and Monitoring of Wetland Environment with AVNIR Global Change, Sea Ice, Glaciers and Ice Sheet Mouth of the Ganges Interaction Strong Air-Sea Interaction Forms the Deep Water in the Japan Sea Monitoring of Atmospheric Ozone Three-Dimensional Distribution of Atmospheric Ozone Arctic Ozone Decrease in 1997 Spring Change of Antarctic Ozone Hole Application 97 98 El Nino Captured by ADEOS The Impact of NSCAT Data on a Global NWP Model Coastal Eddies and Fishing Ground Formation in Spring 1997 as Revealed by OCTS Images Volcanic Eruptions Measured from Space with TOMS A Bird's Eye View Image Utilizing Stereo AVNIR Images Simultaneous Observation by "HIMAWARI" and "MIDORI". KEYWORD: adeos, japan, arctic, imagery, sea ice, spectral, engineering, eorc-037, ea, ris, thermal infrared, sea surface temperature, infrared wavelengths, miti, mapping, ilas, nasda, remote sensing, ao, multispectral, nscat, visible wavelengths, geographic region, continent, visible imagery, img, forest, adeos-i, infrared imagery, polder, vegetation, avnir, geology, agriculture, advanced earth observing satellite-i, land use, toms, satellite, reflected infrared, japan, jaxa, octs, polar, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, nasa, eorc, cnes, eoc, 
TITLE: SHEBA Reconnaissance Imagery. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of optical band reconnaissance imagery of the SHEBA (Surface Heat Balance of the Arctic) site acquired between August 1997 and September 1998. The images cover a variable area on the order of 15 km by 40 km, at a resolution of about 1 m. Some, but not all of the images contain the SHEBA experiment platform (the Canadian icebreaker Des Groseillers). The National Imagery and Mapping Agency approved the release of the imagery at the request of the National Science Foundation (NSF).. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, arctic ocean, visible imagery, arctic, opp9726988, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss200, usa, nsf, satellite imagery, optical band imagery, spectral, engineering, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, polar, arcss, oaii, sheba, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, sheba, adcc, opp-9321416, opp-9726988, visible wavelengths, national science foundation, ocean, geographic region, nima, nsf, opp, arcss, opp9321416, 
TITLE: USGS Seafloor Side-Scan Sonar Imagery of the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), Surveyed Using GLORIA. ABSTRACT: In March 1983, President Reagan signed a proclamation establishing an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) extending the 200 nautical mile from the coasts of the United States, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. territories and possessions. In 1984, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) began a program to map these areas of the EEZ To accomplish the mapping of the deepwater portion (depths greater than 400m) of this area, the USGS selected the long-range sidescan sonar system GLORIA (Geological LOng-Range Inclined Asdic). At that time the GLORIA system was owned and operated by British colleagues at the United Kingdom's Institute of Oceanographic Sciences (IOS), now the Southampton Oceanography Centre, Challenger Division. The GLORIA system was developed specifically to map the morphology and texture of seafloor features in the deep ocean. The GLORIA system is a digital sidescan sonar system capable of producing digital image maps of the seafloor from reflected sound waves. The sidescan sonar system was used aboard the research vessel R V FARNELLA and is shown with the GLORIA fish mounted on the stern of the ship. GLORIA creates images (sonographs) that are a record of the acoustic backscatter from the ocean floor. These images are created by transmitting a series of sound pulses and recording their echoes from the sea floor as the collecting ship moves along a set course. The sound source and receivers are built into a "fish" that is towed about 200 meters behind a ship. This electronic mapping system emits a signal (pulse) every 30 seconds. The pulse travels through the ocean to the bottom where it is partly absorbed and partly reflected by the seafloor. The returned signal is then recorded by shipboard computers. In general, the returned signal is recorded in a range of 0-255 with strong returns recorded as higher values and weak returns recorded as lower values. The darkness or brightness of a feature or an area on the sonographs and completed mosaics is therefore a function of how much sound is reflected from the seafloor. The USGS selected sidescan sonar as the mapping tool because it could be used to obtain information on geologic processes. The intensity of the back-scattered sound from the seafloor is a function of the gradient or slope of the seafloor, of the surface roughness, and of the sediment characteristics such as texture. Another advantage to the GLORIA system was because the system provides information from a swath of seafloor, large areas could be mapped quickly. More detailed information and specifications of the GLORIA-II system is available from Somers and others (1978). The GLORIA imagery provides the first broad-scale view of sea-floor features and the effects of sedimentary processes that have been unknown or poorly known until recently. These data are a unique set of basic information that will support many future studies by government, academic, and industry workers. The recorded digital data are processed and used to construct digital maps of the seafloor such as the one shown (Gulf of Mexico mosaic #13). Seafloor variation is depicted by the light and dark areas representing the high and low returned signal values, and can be interpreted by a geologist. http:  coastalmap.marine.usgs.gov gloria index.html. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continental shelf, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, aedd, western pacific ocean, continental shelves, east coast, gulf coast, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, california, geological long-range inclined asdic, sound navigation and ranging, caribbean sea, maps, charts, cartography, sedimentation, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, radar imagery, bathymetry, seafloor topography, coast, ships, water depth, ocean, gulf of mexico, bathymetry, cruise, oceans, west coast, oregon, geographic region, usgs, washington, exclusive economic zone, usa, usgs, continent, sea floor, north atlantic ocean, continental rises, slopes, gloria, sonar, geology, continental margins, marine, side-scan sonar, coastal zone, northern mariana islands, marine geology, united states of america, eez, marine sediments, vertical location, polar, hawaii, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, micronesia, radar, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Hydrologic Sub-basins of Greenland. ABSTRACT: The Hydrologic Sub-basins of Greenland data set contains Geographic Information System (GIS) polygon shapefiles that include 293 hydrologic sub-basins of the Greenland Ice Sheet, as created by Lewis and Smith (2009). Five km Digital Elevation Models (DEMs) of ice-surface and bedrock topography (Bamber et al. 2001) were used to estimate the hydraulic potentiometric surface for Greenland, which accounts for the effects of ice overburden pressure, such as hydrostatic pressure, surface topography, and underlying bedrock topography (Paterson 1994). Using the 5 km potentiometric grid, a modeled basin network for Greenland's ice sheet was created using the hydrological tools within ESRI ArcGIS (ArcInfo 9.2). Although the GIS initially generated more than 293 basins, basins less than 100 km2 in size, as well as basins located completely outside of the ice sheet extent, were removed from the dataset. Data are available via FTP, and can be read in any GIS software. The following journal article provides documentation for this data set: Lewis, Sarah and Laurence Smith. 2009. Hydrologic Drainage of the Greenland Ice Sheet. Hydrological Processes DOI: 10.1002 hyp.7343. This journal article can be accessed from the Access External Documentation link at the top of this Web page.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, arctic, earth science, runoff, ceos, usa, noaa, cryospheric change analysis web services project, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, greenland, discharge, flow, north america, drainage, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: Senckenbergisches Sammlungsverwaltungssystem, SeSam (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: Sesam is the Collection Management System of the Senckenberg Museum. SeSam was developed together with com2 (Bad Homburg). All collections (both zoological and botanical) of the Senckenberg Research Institute are going to use this efficient tool. SeSam provides the following opportunities: Objects can have an aquatic, terrestrial, recent or fossil origin. All collections are stores in a central database and use a joint data-pool for systematics, geographical data, persons and literature. This enables homogenous capturing of data. Collection spanning searches are possible. Input of new collections is quick and easy. To add collection-specific fields and modulate the general templates is possible without programming knowledge. SeSam is web-based. Size reference: 9155 records [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, marine, obis, mediterranean sea, terrestrial, brackish water, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, europe, polar, census of marine life, biota, coml, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, museum collections, ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, fresh water, 
TITLE: ERS-1 2 Radar Altimeter Sea Surface Height Modes Product. ABSTRACT: The Sea Surface Height Model (SSH) product is a digital data set consisting of a global set of sea surface height point values with respect to a particular reference ellipsoid on a regular equiangular geographical grid. The product is based on ERS-1 2 OPR Altimeter data, processed and compiled at F-PAF, and the D-PAF precise orbits. Two different sea surface height model versions are produced. The stationary solution, a most reliable estimate of a long period (mean) sea surface height model and short period solutions, representing the sea surface for a limited time period. Product characteristics: --------------- Spatial Coverage: global, however, due to the ERS-1 2 inclination the latitude range is limited to about <+82, -82> Spatial Resolution: depends on product version as well as on repeat cycle. The stationary model has a grid spacing of 6' (corresponding to a spatial distance of some 11 km at the equator. SHort period SSH's will have a grid spacing of 15' (corresponding to a spatial distance of some 28 km at the equator), depending on a sufficient input data coverage (repeat cycle). Time Coverage: depends on product version. The stationary model will cover a time period that is as long as the acquisition period of the level 2 records available at D-PAF. The time coverage of short period SSH is one cycle of the 35-day repeat orbit. Reference System: sea surface height refer to wgs84 ellipsoid. Time Rate of Generation: the stationary model is generated every 6 months. The first time it is produced when 6 months of level 2 altimeter data for the 35 days repeat cycle are available. The short period solutions are produced every month (for 3 day repeat cycle), or every new complete repeat cycle. ---------------------- To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface, sea surface topography, esa, esrin, mediterranean sea, significant wave height, global ocean, ocean waves, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, ra, sea surface height, ocean, oceanography, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Aerial Photography Summary Record System. ABSTRACT: [from Aerial Photography Summary Record System Fact Sheet 220-96 (August 1998), http:  clic.npolar.no disc disc_datasets_metadata.php?s=0&desc=1&table=Datasets&id=DISC_GCMD_EARTH_LAND_USGS_APSRS&tag=All&Category=&WCRP=&Location=All&stype=phrase&limit=10&q= Introduction. The Aerial Photography Summary Record System (APSRS) describes aerial photography projects that meet specified criteria over a given geographic area of the United States and its territories. Aerial photographs are an important tool in cartography and a number of other professions. Land use planners, real estate developers, lawyers, environmental specialists, and many other professionals rely on detailed and timely aerial photographs. Until 1975, there was no systematic approach to locate an aerial photograph, or series of photographs, quickly and easily. In that year, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) inaugurated the APSRS, which has become a standard reference for users of aerial photographs. Contents. There are two data bases in the system: the APSRS data base and the contributor data base. Each record in the APSRS data base contains up to 13 descriptive fields. All fields can be displayed, and 12 of the 13 fields can be searched. Not all fields, however, contain data for every record. Each record in the contributor data base contains the name, address, and phone number of a contributor. The contributor field and the field containing the city, State, and zip code can be searched. The APSRS data base describes more than 600,000 aerial photography projects covering the United States and its territories. A number of Federal, State, and municipal agencies and commercial firms contribute to APSRS. Each listing is a summary of aerial photography projects within a 7.5- by 7.5-minute quadrangle area, corresponding to the USGS 7.5-minute map series. Entries are sorted by project date and describe the scale, project code, file type, cloud cover, and camera focal length. The entries also give the name of the holding agency or firm. Requirements. Hardware requirements include an IBM PC-XT-AT or compatible microcomputer with 512 kilobytes of memory, with DOS operating system version 3.0 or greater; one 20-megabyte hard drive; and a CD-ROM reader with software drivers that read ISO-9660 formatted CD-ROM&#039;s.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, terrain elevation, visible imagery, charts, city, arctic, aedd, nasa er-2, cameras, united states of america, north america, spectral, engineering, lakes, cultural features, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, us, polar, aerial photography, maps, topography, earth science, cryosphere, aerial photos, air photos, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, land resources, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, urban, rivers, streams, nasa earth resources-2, geographic region, usgs, photography, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: CRYSYS Sea Ice Research, Canada. ABSTRACT: CRYSYS sea ice research focuses on field investigations for development and validation of microwave algorithms for first-year and multi-year sea ice and modeling of interannual variability and sea ice-climate feedback processes. 1. Develop and validate methods to extract geophysical variables from optical as well as microwave remote sensing data. 2. Improve model parameterizations through studies of local-scale sea ice processes. 3. Develop and test a range of sea ice, ice-ocean and atmosphere-ice models to investigate variability in the cryospheric system and processes important on climatic time and space scales. These range from detailed 1-D models of land-fast ice, to 3-D models of the entire Arctic ice-ocean system. 4. Collect and catalogue important non-EOS data which contribute to the overall success of CRYSYS e.g. airborne SAR, CASI and other imagery, information on ice thickness, concentration, and ice type from shore stations and operational reconnaissance. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, davis strait, arctic, ice temperature, melt ponds, sea surface, northern hemisphere, ice types, north america, sea ice, spectral, engineering, ice growth, melt, western arctic, nova scotia, resolute, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, leads, microwave imagery, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, icebergs, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, ice deformation, nunavut, northwest territories, eastern arctic, ice edges, heat flux, microwave, land-fast ice, vertical location, polar, ice floes, ice roughness, reflectance, queen elizabeth islands, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, polynyas, lancaster sound, ice depth, thickness, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Sviny mooring S1. ABSTRACT: Moored rig at Sviny observing current and some other parameters. KEYWORD: ocean currents, sea_water_pressure, salinity, northward_sea_water_velocity, sea_water_speed, direction_of_sea_water_velocity, north atlantic ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, water pressure, velocity, pressure, arctic, no, eastward_sea_water_velocity, ipy, ocean, oceanography, temperature, oceans, sea_water_salinity, ocean pressure, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Eastern Canada Offshore Hydrocarbon Exploration Geophysical Surveys - Basin Database. ABSTRACT: This data set includes general information about most offshore eastern Canada, hydrocarbon exploration geophysical surveys. It also contains detailed location information on seismic reflection programs. Included are: program code, operator name, general location, survey type and description. The data set includes line names and decimated shotpoint location coordinates for many non-confidential (as defined by regulation) surveys. The collection is part of the BASIN database which contains a wealth of geological, geophysical and engineering information related to years of hydrocarbon exploration and development, primarily in the offshore areas of eastern Canada. Data has been compiled from many sources including well history reports, various journal publications, and reports by the GSC and regulatory agencies.This data is used primarily by government, industry and academic researchers to explore and map the offshore sedimentary basins of Eastern Canada. The main purpose is to identify and quantify producible hydrocarbon resources. The data provides baseline data for research as well as for exploration and development decision making. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, offshore newfoundland, davis strait, gomodp, arctic, ungava bay, oxe basin, marine geophysics, northumberland strait, st. georges bay (newfoundland), norwegian bay, hudson bay area onshore, north america, grand banks (hibernia 3-d seismic and terra nova 3-d grid), cabot strait, st. anns bank, melville sound, gulf of maine, st. georges bay (nova scotia), scotian shelf (chebucto 3-d seismic and glenelg 3-d seismic), seismic refraction, aspy bay, st. pierre bank, anticosti island, nova scotia, bay of fundy, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, united states atlantic shelf, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, ocean, home bay, canada, new brunswick, oceans, baffin island, geographic region, eastern newfoundland shelf, jones sound, bras d'or lake, seabed survey, scotian slope, continent, newfoundland and labrador, grand banks slope (laurentian cone), gcmd, seismology, north atlantic ocean, hudson strait, labrador sea, georges bank, northwest territories, marine, grand banks of newfoundland, seismic reflection, baffin bay, gulf of st. lawrence, polar, green bank, frobisher bay, eclipse sound, earth science, ceos, geophysics, chedabucto bay, aeromagnetic, shallow seismic, flemish cap, labrador shelf, smith sound, prince edward island, burgeo bank, gravity, lancaster sound, flemish pass, atlantic ocean, cumberland sound, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MYD10C2) consists of 7200-column by 3600-row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg climate modeling grid (CMG). Data and quality assurance (QA) fields are in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, cmg, 
TITLE: GPS profile Troll Station - South Pole. ABSTRACT: Complete, kinematic GPS profile along the route of the Norwegian-U.S. IPY traverse of East Antarctica, from Troll Station to 'Camp Winter' at -86,8S, 54,4E, from the South Pole (-90, 0) back to Troll Station across the Recovery Lakes region, and static GPS measurements of snow stakes at selected locations along the route. The scientific objectives are to investigate surface topography and dynamics of the ice sheet, determine the spatial variability of the surface topography, validate remote sensing data, determine local topography around drill sites and to determine flow vectors at drill sites. Some of the stakes have been revisited, and some new stakes have been positioned.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, gps profile, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, dronning maud land, amd, no, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, arctic, no, no-us-traverse, trans-antarctic scientific traverses expeditions & ice divide of east antarctica, ipy, taste-idea, amd, geographic region, norwegian-u.s. scientific traverse of east antarctica, 
TITLE: Chlorophyll A data in Bering Sea and Chuckchi Sea. ABSTRACT: During the first voyage of Chinese National Arctic Research Expedition, in vivo fluorescence and absolute concentration of Chl-a was determined by the extraction method with TURNER DESIGN Field Fluorometer (Model 10-005R) as the basic data for the MEBCS project (China-Korea cooperation project) at 90 sites along the voyage line and in Bering Sea and Chuckchi Sea.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, bering sea, polar, ocean chemistry, chuckchi sea, pigments, arctic, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, total chlorophyll a, ships, ocean, micro chlorophyll a, amd, cn, nano chlorophyll a, fluorometers, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Model Output of Active Layer Depth in the Arctic Drainage Basin, 1979-2001. ABSTRACT: Investigators applied the Frozen Ground Model to the entire Arctic Drainage Basin to create this data set of active layer depth (ALD), recorded in centimeters. This model has been shown to provide excellent results for active layer depth and soil temperatures when driven with well-known boundary conditions and forcing parameters at specific locations. The model is driven by 2-meter air temperatures from the ERA-40 European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) reanalysis. The reanalysis data are provided on a N80 reduced Gaussian grid, which is symmetric about the Equator with 80 latitudinal points in each hemisphere. Data represent a subset of the entire 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid) for the Northern Hemisphere (721 x 721 = 39,926 grid cells). There are monthly files for 23 years, 1979-2001, with a daily time step. Data are in space-delimited ASCII text format, and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: polar, models, active layer, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, usa, noaa, usa, nsf, depth, arcss158, discontinuous permafrost, permafrost, arctic basin, frozen ground, opp-0229766, soil temperature, active layer depth, geographic region, arcss, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, continuous permafrost, 
TITLE: GLDAS VIC Land Surface Model L4 Monthly 1.0 x 1.0 degree V001 (GLDAS_VIC10_M) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is monthly. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency's AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS VIC model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 11 Near surface air temperature K 32 Near surface wind magnitude m s 51 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 57 Total Evapotranspiration kg m^2 s 65 Snow Water Equivalent kg m^2 71 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 86 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 99 Snowmelt kg m^2 s 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface Runoff kg m^2 s 235 Surface Runoff kg m^2 s There are 3 vertical levels each for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086)in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, humidity, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, snow, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Surface of the Earth - Poster - Revised. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: This 31 X 43" full-color poster is publication MGG-5R from the Marine Geology and Geophysics Division of the NOAA National Geophysical Data Center. This image was generated from digital data bases of seafloor and land elevations on a 2-minute latitude longitude grid (1 minute of latitude = 1 nautical mile, or 1.853 km). Assumed illumination is from the west; shading is computed as a function of the east-west slope of the surface with a nonlinear exaggeration favoring low-relief areas. A Mercator projection was used for the world image, which spans 390 degrees of of longitude from 270 West eastward to 120 East; latitude coverage is from 80 degrees North to 80 degrees South. The resolution of the gridded data varies from true 2-minute for the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Ocean floors and all land masses to 5 minutes for the Arctic Ocean floor. Major data sources are as follows: for Ocean Areas between 72 degrees North to 72 South latitude, bathymetry is derived from satellite altimetry of the sea surface; poleward of 72 degrees, data are from the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office. Land Topography is primarily from various sources collected and gridded at 30 minute resolution by the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, US Department of Defense. PURPOSE: Marine Research, Instruction, and Exploration CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date. KEYWORD: interior & crust, echo sounders, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, altimeters, sea floor, arctic, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, global, usa, noaa, noaa climate and global change program, earth science information partners program, polar, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, wdc, mgg, boulder, topography, aircraft, earth science, ceos, land surface, world data center for marine geology and geophysics, boulder, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, ocean, topographical relief, oceans, esip, geographic region, cgc, 
TITLE: MLS Aura L2 Water Vapor (H2O) Mixing Ratio V002 ML2H2O at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: ML2H2O is the EOS Aura Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) standard product for water vapor derived from radiances measured primarily by the 190 GHz radiometer. The current ML2H2O product is version 2.2. Spatial coverage is near-global (-82 to +82 latitude), with each profile spaced 1.5 or ~165 km along the orbit track (roughly 15 orbits per day). The recommended useful vertical range is between 316 and 0.002 hPa, and the vertical resolution is about 1.5 km at 316 hPa increasing to 3.5 km to 4.6 hPa, and degrades to 15 km above 0.1 hPa. Users of the ML2H2O data product should read section 3.7 of the EOS MLS Level 2 Version 2.2 Quality Document for more information (http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov data v2-2_data_quality_document.pdf). Users are encouraged to register with the MLS science team at http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov cgi-bin registration.pl to obtain updates and information about this data product. The ML2H2O data are stored in the version 5 EOS Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS5), which is based on the version 5 Hierarchical Data Format, or HDF5. Each file contains two swath objects (one with profile data, the other with column data), each with a set of data and geolocation fields, swath attributes, and metadata. The data fields include the geophysical parameter values and precision (standard deviation), convergence values, data quality, and a status flag. The geolocation fields include a time stamp in TAI-93 format (seconds since January 1, 1993), geodetic latitude and longitude, and pressure level values, as well as local solar time, solar zenith angle, line of sight angle, and orbit geodetic angle. There is one file per day, and the average file size is about 1.2 Mbytes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, h2o, arctic, earth science, ceos, echo, global, microwave limb sounder, usa, nasa, troposphere, atmospheric water vapor, eosdis, aura, earth science information partners program, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, mls, humidity, esip, geographic region, earth observing system (eos), aura, stratosphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day (MYD29P1D) contains the following fields: sea ice by reflectance, sea ice by reflectance spatial quality assurance (QA), ice surface temperature (IST), IST spatial QA, sea ice by IST, and combined sea ice in HDF-EOS format along with corresponding metadata. Data are available from 04 July 2002 to present. Version 4 (V004) is the latest version of MYD29P1D data available. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Coarse Fraction Grain Size Analyses, East Coast and Arctic Canada. ABSTRACT: Analysis of grain size to determine the percentage of grains in a sediment that are coarser than 1 single grain size e.g. >63, >125, or >150 microns from marine core samples collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic). This is a type of grain size data. Grain size is a fundamental means of characterizing seabed sediment. Seabed sediment may be named according to its grain size. Grain size analysis of marine sediment samples?is a valuable method of determining: the source of the sediments (i.e. whether they were derived from land and blown out to sea; whether they were deposited by oceanic currents or delivered by glaciers or icebergs); the energy level at the seabed under modern conditions (e.g. is?it quiet enough for fine-grained sediments to be deposited or are fines winnowed away?leaving only coarser-grained sands and gravels behind?); the energy level?in the past when sediments below the seabed were deposited, based on down-core analysis of grain-size; the strength and stability properties of the sediments and their response to loading. Sands, clays and silts all behave very differently under loads. Even a small amount of fines can make a sediment unstable so grain size is a crucial part of doing a geotechnical investigation of soil stability. The same applies for: assessing the stability of a slope under wave-, or sediment- or seismic- loading; the potential for pollutants or contaminants to be deposited or transported; to determine whether sediments will be eroded and or transported under the effects of bottom currents that may be produced during tidal fluctuations or severe winter storms.This is a basic analytical tool used to further scientific research in the areas of sedimentology and paleoceanography. Grain size influences the mobility, stability and physical properties of sediment, has an important impact on the associated biota, and can be used to interpret the origin and behaviour of seabed sediment. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, none, paleoclimate, marine, northern hemisphere, north america, ocean, lake records, sediment grain size, marine sediments, polar, paleoceanography, earth science, ceos, marine environment monitoring, sedimentary textures, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, oceans, canada east coast, geographic region, western hemisphere, sediments, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 2 Global Area Coverage (GAC), Local Area Coverage (LAC), and Merged LAC (MLAC) Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global satellite measurements by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS acquires approximately 15 pole-to-pole orbital swaths of data per day, and approximately 90% of the ocean surface is scanned every two days. SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The Level 2 data products consists of geophysical values that are generated from Level 1A data by applying sensor calibration, atmospheric correction, and bio-optical algorithms. The resolution is the same as the corresponding level 1A Local Area Coverage (LAC, 1 km resolution), and Global Area Coverage (GAC, 4 km resolution) products. Unusual conditions may be flagged on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Before computing Level 2 data, pixels are eliminated if they contain clouds, sun glint, or other abnormalities. For pixels that pass these screens, an atmospheric correction is applied to subtract the atmospheric scattering components from the total radiance to obtain the water-leaving radiances for bands 1-5 (see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov VALIDATION atm.html). See http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?SEAWIFS_LEVEL_1A for additional information about Level 1A data. SeaWiFS Standard Level 2 Products: -Normalized water-leaving radiances at 412, 443, 490, 510, 555, and 670 nm. -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm (for atmospheric correction). -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm (for atmospheric correction). -Chlorophyll-a concentration. -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm Level-2 processing is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 (MSl12) code, which is developed and maintained by the OBPG. MSL12 is used for the standard processing of all ocean products distributed through the web browsers and FTP sites. This software is capable of retrieving oceanic optical properties and various derived products from the observed top-of-atmosphere (TOA) radiances collected by a variety of ocean remote sensing radiometers. Full documentation, updated code source, sensor files, and output product descriptions can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MSL12 . Ancillary meteorological data (U and V winds, surface pressure, water vapor) and Ozone data (O3) are used for atmospheric correction in Level 2 processing. EPTOMS Ozone is the primary source for ozone used within OBPG. The Ancillary Data is Quality Controlled and made available to the public by FTP from the Ocean Color Web Site. Other Level 2 processing steps include data navigation so that land mask may be correctly placed, computational steps to derive the geophysical products, and tests for anomalous conditions in the data (masks and flags). More detailed information on the Level-2 format specifications can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-2_Data_Products.pdf Browse Level 2 (GAC, LAC and MLAC) data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Estimates of Sea Ice Floe Velocities Characterizing Whaling Seasons Using Satellite Imagery of the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas, Spring 2000 and 2001. ABSTRACT: This data set formed the basis for estimating sea ice floe velocities covering two spring whaling seasons with markedly different rates of success from March to June in 2000 and 2001 in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas near Barrow, Alaska. Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) images from the RADARSAT and the European Remote Sensing Two (ERS - 2) satellites and broadband visible (VIS) and infrared (IR)images from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite were used. Sea ice floe velocity and sea ice reflectance are the parameters used in this data set. The temporal resolution of these images were from one to seven days with a mean of three days. The spatial resolution was 30 m to 1.6 km. These images were georeferenced and reproduced in Microsoft PowerPoint format; thus, PowerPoint is necessary to view these images. Data and browse images are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, arctic ocean, sea ice concentration, arctic, sea ice extent, noaa poes, national snow and ice data center, arctic sea ice, european remote sensing satellite-2, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, sea ice velocity, ers-2, usa, nsf, united states of america, arcss149, north america, alaska, sea ice, sea ice drift, radarsat-1, sea ice motion, cultural perspective, local and indigenous knowledge, avhrr, polar, active microwave instrument, reflectance, sar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, beaufort sea, traditional environmental knowledge, synthetic aperture radar, ocean, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, opp-9908682, ami, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Determination of the thermal conductivity of sea ice from measurements of ice temperature (and temperature gradients), salinity, ice microstructure and other environmental parameters. ABSTRACT: The polar oceans' sea ice cover strongly modifies ocean-atmosphere heat transfer. Despite its importance, existing circulation models and large scale sea ice models include overly simplistic parameterizations of the ice thermal conductivity that are likely to contribute to significant errors in estimating ice production rates. A set of field measurements in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica and Barrow, Alaska, were conducted over 5 seasons from which the thermal conductivity of first year sea ice was derived as a function of ice microstructure, temperature (and temperature gradients), salinity and other environmental parameters. Thermistor arrays were deployed in fast sea ice near the Erebus Glacier Tongue to allow measurements of temperature over small volumes with the sensor in direct contact with undisturbed ice grown around it. Data was recorded at 10 min intervals throughout the winter and spring. To estimate thermal conductivity from this data set, an array of dielectric probes were deployed which allow the derivation of the in situ brine volume fraction and bulk ice salinity in the respective ice horizons. In addition, an ice coring programme was conducted to characterise ice properties and heat flow processes over a larger area. Eleven sites were visited with measurements at each including snow and ice characterization and temperature profile measurements. Ice cores were sectioned on site into 5-10cm segments and melted, salinity measurements and sub-sampling for stable-isotope measurements, study of crystal and pore microstructure completed. To extend surface observations, backscatter signatures in Radarsat Synthetic Aperture Radar imagery was analysed. In addition, a set of laboratory based thermal conductivity measurements were made on cores drilled out of large blocks cut from the array sites. Surface and sub-surface first year ice and multi year surface ice were characterised by density and salinity measurements and photographed. The thermal conductivity of the cores was measured in a specifically constructed thermal conductivity measuring apparatus.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, salinity, earth science, ice microstructure, ceos, ice temperature, thermistors, coring devices, field surveys, antarctica, field investigation, ice formation, ice types, sea ice, amd, nz, oceans, amd, mcmurdo sound, geographic region, thermal conductivity, 
TITLE: Global Snow-Water-Equivalent Depth Coefficient-of-Variation Classification. ABSTRACT: This data set provides a global distribution of nine subgrid snow-depth-variability categories and a coefficient of variation applicable to each category, as the result of the Subgrid SNOW Distribution (SSNOWD) submodel that defines subgrid snow-depth and snow-cover variability. This data set provides the distribution of those nine categories and their coefficient-of-variation values on a global, 2.5 arc-min latitude-longitude (approximately 5-km) grid. The time period covered is 1 January 1994 through 1 January 2004. The SSNOWD submodel was formulated to improve the depiction of autumn through spring land-atmosphere interactions and feedbacks within global weather, climate, and hydrologic models. From both atmospheric and hydrologic perspectives, the subgrid snow-depth distribution is an important quantity to account for within large-scale models. In the natural system, these subgrid snow-depth distributions are largely responsible for the mosaic of snow-covered and snow-free areas that develop as the snow melts, and the impacts of these fractional areas must be quantified in order to realistically simulate grid-averaged surface fluxes. SSNOWD's formulation incorporates observational studies showing that snow distributions can be described by a lognormal distribution and the snow-depth coefficient-of-variation (CV). Using an understanding of the physical processes that lead to these observed snow-depth variations, a global distribution of nine subgrid snow-depth-variability categories was developed, and coefficient-of-variation values were assigned to each category based on published measurements. Data are in binary format.. KEYWORD: nsf, opp-9732077, snow melt, atlas, arcss, laii, arctic, global, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, global land, snow cover, arcss, laii, atlas, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, models, arctic system science data coordination center, laii, opp-0229973, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, adcc, opp-9415386, national science foundation, arcss138, fwi, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, snow water equivalent, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, 
TITLE: R-ArcticNet: A Regional Hydrographic Data Network for the Pan-Arctic Region. ABSTRACT: This comprehensive river discharge database on CD-ROM for the entire pan-Arctic drainage system uses data from 3713 gauges and contains monthly river discharge data extending from the 1890s (for four Canadian and five Russian gauges) through the early 1990s. The length of record for individual gauges is extremely variable, but most records cover years between 1960 and 1990. The pan-Arctic drainage region covers a land area of approximately 21 million km2 that drains into the Arctic Ocean as well as Hudson Bay, James Bay and the Northern Bering Strait, including the Yukon and Anadyr Rivers. Most of the drainage basins used were greater than 15,000 km2. For Canada and Russia the collection includes all available river gauges. The gauges for large drainage areas are of the greatest interest to the regional, continental and global-scale scientific community for modeling purposes. The data set was developed at the University of New Hampshire.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, arctic, ground water, usa, noaa, ground water discharge, flow, usa, nsf, discharge, visual observations, terrestrial hydrosphere, flow, ground-based observations, rivers, polar, hydrology, streams, earth science, stream gauges, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, water, surface water, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, rivers, streams, drainage, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Biodiversity, molecular phylogeny and evolution of marine algae from the Arctic and the Antarctic. ABSTRACT: With the International Polar Year (IPY 2007-2008) coming soon, a number of scientists from many countries are planning and carrying out various and important research projects cooperatively concerning polar sciences. At this critical period, we are planning to carry out our research whose theme is the marine algal biodiversity, molecular phylogeny and evolution. The environmental changes of polar areas are clearly observed at a large scale and accelerated, and have a serious effect on the earth. The serious environmental changes influence the existence and distribution of algae, primary producers so directly and greatly that the research of these phenomena is required urgently. In our research, we will study algae from the Arctic and the Antarctic. We try to grasp the diversity of species with the investigations of the Bangiales, Corallinales and Ceramiales in the Rhodophyta, which have a comparatively long history of evolution, and the Desmarestiales, Laminariales and Sphacelariales in the Phaeophyceae, known as recently evolved. We will also carry out DNA barcoding of the mitochondrial COI, analyze their morphological data, reveal their phylogenetic relationships based on multi-gene sequence data including nuclear SSU and ITS rDNA, plastid rbcL-S (including RuBisCo spacer), and ultimately clarify distributions and evolutionary mechanisms of endemic and widely distributed algae. The aim of our research is to grasp the diversity of algae which live in the Arctic and the Antarctic with the thorough interpretations of all the results, suggest a new taxonomic systems on the basis of their phylogenetic relationships, and reconstruct the history of their distributions and evolutions from the viewpoint of the movement of the continents and distributions of organisms.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, evolutionary adaptation, ecological dynamics, arctic, red algae, plants, protists, international polar year, biodiversity functions, polar, southern ocean, macroalgae (seaweeds), community dynamics, earth science, ceos, amd, kr, biosphere, antarctica, ipy, ocean, species, population interactions, amd, geographic region, brown algae, 
TITLE: Level 3.5 time-averaged VAM analyses of ocean surface wind velocity over 30-days (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov products product079.html ). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com  ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao  ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used ( http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata  ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR ( http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets  ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. The Level 3.5 data products are derived from time averaged Level 3.0 gridded VAM analyses over 5-day and monthly periods. Only those grid points with one or more analyzed observations are used in the average. Monthly means starting on the first day of each month. The level 3.5 data sets are stored in the Hierarchical Data Format (HDF, http:  hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu ). All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data distributed in NetCDF format ( http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf  ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "monthly_20040101_v10l35flk.nc.gz" designates a level 3.5 (l35) data set containing 30-day means for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, dmsp 5d-2, f14, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, buoys, dmsp 5d-3, f15, tmi, aqua, global ocean, radiometers, discover, amsr, trmm, adeos-ii, quikscat, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, nscat, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, advanced earth observing satellite-ii, geographic region, seawinds, indian ocean, special sensor microwave, imager, smmr, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, advanced microwave scanning radiometer, trmm microwave imager, tropical rainfall measuring mission, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, nasa scatterometer, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Geological investigations, triangulation surveys and glaciology investigations of the Upper Tucker Glacier area, North Victoria Land, and around Scott Base. ABSTRACT: Intensive geological work was conducted in the Tucker Glacier area of North Victoria Land. The work area overlapped the Geological Survey of the 1957-58 Expedition and this was helpful to correlate rock types, standardisation of nomenclature, etc. Every opportunity was taken to observe the more distant rocks from high peaks and on air flights. Three major rock types were found to occur in this region and extensive collections were made from the following: i) 49 specimens of Robertson Bay type greywackes, slates, red argillites, grits, etc including a number of orientated samples, ii) 15 specimens from the Tucker Granodiorite, iii) 26 Xenoliths from the Tucker Granodiorite, iv) 69 specimens from the contact zone of the Tucker Granodiorite with the Robertson Bay Group, v) 32 specimens of various hyperbyssal rocks from occurrences in granodiorite, greywacke and quartzite and vi) 45 specimens from a new formation of quartzites discovered. A total of 236 specimens were collected. Time was also spent working in the vicinity of Scott Base examining McMurdo Volcanics. Samples were collected of the typical extrusive rocks of the area, fairly rare quartzose xenoliths from the olivine basalts and limburgitic basalts of the area, olivine nodules from certain basalts, hydrothermally altered basalts and nodules from the sulphur cones area and gabbroic xenoliths from the basalts. In addition, a number of soil samples and a considerable number of lichens were collected and several snow pits were dug and morphological features of the glaciers and Polar Plateau noted. Field surveys were conducted to provide ground control in the form of a triangulation network with heighting. The survey achieved a triangulation network over an area of about 3,000 square miles.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, geomorphology, earth science, ceos, field surveys, igneous rocks, antarctica, field investigation, tectonic landforms, processes, bedrock lithology, tucker glacier, amd, nz, rocks, minerals, amd, visual observations, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: New England Lakes Terrigenous Inwash and Holocene Paleostorm Data, NOAA NCDC WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: [Abstract] For the purpose of detecting the effects of human activities on climate change, it is important to document natural change in past climate. In this context, it has proved particularly difficult to study the variability in the occurrence of extreme climate events, such as storms with exceptional rainfall. Previous investigations have established storm chronologies using sediment cores from single lakes, but such studies can be susceptible to local environmental bias. Here we date terrigenous inwash layers in cores from 13 lakes, which show that the frequency of storm-related floods in the northeastern United States has varied in regular cycles during the past 13,000 years (13 kyr), with a characteristic period of about 3 kyr. Our data show four peaks in storminess during the past 14 kyr, approximately 2.6, 5.8, 9.1 and 11.9 kyr ago. This pattern is consistent with long-term changes in the average sign of the Arctic Oscillation, suggesting that modulation of this dominant atmospheric mode may account for a significant fraction of Holocene climate variability in North America and Europe.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, terrigenous inwash layers, sediment corers, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, climate variability, usa, noaa, arctic oscillation, paleoclimate, climate indicators, terrigenous sediments, paleostorms, precipitation, pages, united states of america, north america, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, quaternary, lakes, terrestrial hydrosphere, igbp, climate change, ground-based observations, paleo start date 14,000 ybp, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, extreme climate events, paleo stop date 0 ybp, erosion, sedimentation, atmospheric phenomena, earth science, ceos, land surface, phanerozoic, ao, surface water, lake sediment cores, vermont, geographic region, sediments, storms, teleconnections, 
TITLE: GLDAS VIC Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 1.0 x 1.0 degree V001 (GLDAS_VIC10_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) Model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency's AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS VIC model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 3 vertical levels each for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, climate indicators, eosdis, precipitation, earth science information partners program, humidity, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, snow, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Monthly L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Monthly L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MYD10CM) data set, new for Version 5 (V005), contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data in Hierarchical Data Format- Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 column by 3600 row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Monthly average snow cover is calculated from the daily global products for the month. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, snow, ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: Mooring and Drifting Buoy Data: Beaufort Gyre Freshwater Experiment, 2003. ABSTRACT: In the summer of 2003, investigators established an observational program to measure the freshwater content (in sea ice and in the ocean) of freshwater fluxes in the Beaufort Gyre using moorings and drifting buoys. They collected temperature time series, salinity, current, sea ice draft, and bottom pressure measurements. Investigators used conventional mooring systems containing a McLane Moored Profiler (MMP) to sample currents and hydrographic data from 50 m to 2050 m with 17-hour time intervals. They measured sea ice draft with an ASL Environmental Sciences 420 kHz upward-looking sonar (ULS). Using a high accuracy bottom pressure recorder (BPR), they measured sea level height variability and near-bottom seawater temperatures. Each mooring consisted of a surface floatation package at 50 m depth, which housed the ULS, a mooring cable containing the MMP, and dual acoustic releases and a BPR located immediately above the anchor. Investigators also deployed several ice-tethered beacons to provide concurrent temperature and salinity data at several discrete depths in the uppermost 40 m. The instruments suspended three SeaBird MicroCat C T recorders and data were broadcast via the Argos data collection relay system, which also provided the drifter location.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, conductivity meters, temperature sensors, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, buoys, velocity measurements, conductivity, sea ice, moored upward looking sonar, beaufort gyre expedition project, bgep, sea surface temperature, opp-0230184, drifting buoys, time series, upward looking sonar, office of polar programs, national science foundation, moored buoy, sea ice draft, bottom pressure gauges, ocean, argos, profilers, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, moorings, argos data collection and position location system, beaufort gyre, usa, nsf, polar, salinity, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort gyre freshwater experiment, beaufort sea, temperature profiles, ocean water salinity, arcss165, ocean water temperature, sea surface temperatures, arctic freshwater initiative, ice depth, thickness, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Upper-Air Data At Standard Pressure Levels from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute ofHydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The UADSPL data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include upper-air temperature, dew point deficits, geopotential height, pressure, and winds for Africa, Asia, Europe, and Australia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, altitude, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, troposphere, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, ground stations, europe, polar, vertical location, dew point deficit, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, upper air, uadspl, geographic region, eurasia, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Diversity and DNA barcoding of the brown algae around the Dasan Station in the Arctic. ABSTRACT: The case studies presented here indicate that cox1-5 barcoding will be a powerful ally in the identification of brown algal species in the Arctic. In all cases intraspecific divergence values ranged from 0 to 5 bp, whereas interspecific divergences > 20 bp were usually observed. The DNA marker successfully assigned collections to the correct species and resolved a reasonably well-supported phylogeny of mitochondrial haplophytes in the Laminariales. The desmarestialean and laminarialean algae were compared in terms of morphology and mitochondrial cox1 sequence data among each order worldwide. Diversity and phylogeny of the Laminariales based on the cox1 sequence data indicate that there are five Laminaria species around the Dasan Station in Svalbard, the Arctic and one of them are new species candidates based on their morphology and DNA sequence data. Our data indicated that the mechanism of evolution in representative brown algae around the Arctic is not simple. It is therefore, in need of a thorough phylogenetic and biogeographic investigation of them. In our further researches, we will investigate brown and red algae from the Arctic and the Antarctic. We try to grasp the diversity of species with the investigations of the Bangiales, Corallinales and Ceramiales in red algae, which have a comparatively long history of evolution, and the Desmarestiales, Laminariales and Sphacelariales in brown algae, known as recently evolved. We will also carry out DNA barcoding of the mitochondrial cox1, analyze their morphological data, reveal their phylogenetic relationships based on multi-gene sequence data including nuclear rDNA, plastid rbcL-S, and mitochondrial cox1, and ultimately clarify distributions and evolutionary mechanisms of endemic and widely distributed algae.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, macroalgae (seaweeds), arctic, earth science, ceos, algae, amd, kr, antarctica, red algae, plants, protists, brown algae, desmarestiales, laminariales, amd, geographic region, brown algae, 
TITLE: MMS Ship Transect Survey for Mammals and Seabirds, Southern California Bight. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Marine Mammal and Seabird Surveys of The Southern California Bight Studies: -- So. Calif. Bight Ship Surveys [Birds and Mammals] Study Code: SS Contract Number: AA550-CT7-36 Principal Investigator(s) Affiliation: K. S. Norris and B. J. Le Boeuf, University of California, Santa Cruz, and G. L. Hunt, University of California, Irvine. PURPOSE: OBJECTIVES: Objectives of the study were to characterize the marine mammal and seabird fauna of the Southern California Bight, estimate abundance of species, describe the distribution, determine the timing and routes of migrations and movements, and document seasonal changes in numbers or patterns of habitat-use. In addition, studies were conducted to determine the size and status of breeding colonies of seabirds and pinnipeds, their productivity, and trends in growth. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: May 1975 through March 1978 STUDY AREA: The Southern California Bight, from Point Conception to the U.S.-Mexico boundary and offshore to the 2,000 m isobath. METHODOLOGY: Aerial and ship surveys were conducted along pre-established transects designed to systematically sample marine mammal and seabird abundance in all waters of the study area. Aerial surveys were conducted at two altitudes (200 ft and about 750-1,000 ft ASL) alternating at 2-3 week intervals. Seabirds and pinnipeds were recorded only on the low-altitude surveys which predominantly sampled along eight lines of latitude, separated by 25 nm, and connecting lines of longitude. High-altitude surveys sampled cetacean abundance along 15 Loran lines oriented northeast-southwest and separated by 12-15 nm. On low-altitude surveys, seabirds were counted only within a 50 m corridor on the shaded side of the aircraft. Marine mammals were counted in an unbounded corridor on one side of the aircraft on low-altitude surveys and both sides of the aircraft on high-altitude surveys. A clinometer or marks on the wing-strut were used to estimate the declination, and the measurement or estimate later used to calculate probability density functions of frequency with right-angle distance. Ships were used for surveys of inshore waters along standard (i.e., predetermined and replicate) transects and for search, catch, and tagging tracking of small cetaceans. The standard ship transect cruises sampled abundance of seabirds and marine mammals over banks, basins, and ridges in waters inshore of the Patton Escarpment (the shelf break). Seabirds and marine mammals were counted on both sides of the cruise track and distance estimated or measured with a range-finder. Catch cruises attempted to find and remain with schools of common dolphin and other small cetaceans; therefore, data on sightings from these cruises cannot be used as samples of animal abundance. The Southern California Bight Study also included ground and aerial censuses of pinniped and seabird colonies, and special studies of productivity, mortality rates, and foraging range. DATABASES PRODUCED: Databases produced include 1) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 24 *low-altitude aerial surveys, 2) sightings of cetaceans on 35 high-altitude aerial surveys, 3) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 29 ship transect surveys, and 4) sightings of cetaceans on 34 catch cruises. Included in this database are the following: High Altitude Mammal Observations: 75,489 km of effort, 695 sightings of 68,557 individual animals Low Altitude Mammal Observations: 37,843 km of effort, 1,320 sightings of 15,070 individual animals Low Altitude Bird Observations: 35,445 km of effort, 7,950 sightings of 63,359 individual animals Ship Observations: 17,903 km of effort, 23,519 sightings of 181,287 individual animals CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, arctic ocean, geese, herons, rhinoceros auklet, troit, ballena de sei, steller's sea lion, cormorants, ballena-picuda de couvier, negreta ala blanca, colimbo menor, steller sealion, mouette de bonaparte, cheurs, gaviota occidental, gant, marsouins, anite cul-blanc, bec commune., brown pelican, arctic tern, ross' gulls, courlis corlieu, gaviota ploma, cormorans, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, fin whale, ibis, goose-beaked whale, labbes, mew gull, loons, jaegers, penguins, dolphins, oies, humpback whale, continent, northern pintail, rgulo de craveri, pardela cola corta, perviers, picopando canelo, gaviota plateada, common tern, black storm-petrel, fica, storm petrels, ducks, geese, swans, gate superbe, front blanc, fulmars, vuelvepiedras negro, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, colimbo mayor, pingouins, puffin fuligineux, gaviota cana, ballena gris, n negro, sterne de forster, labbe pomarin, ballena menor, pacific ocean, puffins, casseaux, o negro, ballena jorobada, black turnstone, northern right-whale dolphin, herons, egrets and allies, sei whale, common loon, o cenizo, short-beaked common dolphin, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, cygnes, long-finned pilot whale, long-tailed jaeger, lida, northern bottle-nosed whale, northern elephant seal, alcuela oscura, brown booby, gaviota pico anillado, labbe parasite, least storm-petrel, cassin's auklet, thayer's gull, cuvier's beaked whale, canards, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, california, gaviota californiana, cetaceans, phale noir de l'atlantique, steller sea lion, whales, n elegante, northern sea lion, ruddy turnstone, land de thayer, pomarine jaeger, whimbrel, canard pilet, gulls, royal tern, faucons, harbor seal, common murre, nimo, tufted puffin, auks, elegant tern, beaked whales, petit rorqual, ocean, north atlantic bottle-nosed whale, storks, plongeon catmarin, negreta nuca blanca, short-beaked saddleback dolphin, toothed whales, pardela pata rosada, n chato, pelagic cormorant, typical terns, sterne arctique, oceanodroma homochroa, common dolphin, fork-tailed storm-petrel, garza morena, northern right whale dolphin, gaviota de bonaparte, achichilique pico amarillo, california sealion, ring-billed gull, ndez fur seal, rorqual bleu, marine mammals, red-necked phalarope, pardela de buller, huarts, magnificent frigatebird, blue whale, finback whale, tubinares, white-winged scoter, heermann's gull, northern fur seal, rons, herring gull, collier, gico, western grebe, salteador cola larga, bosse, great blue heron, obis, seamap, biological classification, salteador pomarino, aigles, longue queue, minke whale, sabine's gulls, true's porpoise, arctic, black tern, n de forster, willet, bonaparte's gull, red-billed tropicbird, sabine's gull, masked booby, marbled murrelet, waders, gulls, auks and allies, north pacific ocean, california sea lion, north pacific bottle-nosed whale, bobo enmascarado, western gull, sternes, sperm whale, ibises, petrels, ships, mammals, terns, cano blanco, forster's tern, guillemots, glaucous-winged gull, northern bottlenose whale, saddle-backed dolphin, sandpipers, zambullidor orejudo, land de californie, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, grebes, vuelvepiedras rojizo, macreuse brune, craveri's murrelet, flamants, shearwaters, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, zarapito trinador, rique, polar, n de brandt, kittiwakes, cou noir, sito, n costado blanco, ballena azul, dauphins, ducks, porpoises, rtico, carnivores, rabijunco pico rojo, risso's dolphin, o de leach, california gull, baird's beaked whale, res marins, sooty shearwater, n caspia, goosebeak whale, sterne caspienne, rorqual commun, swans, ballena de aleta, north america, falaropo pico grueso, red-throated loon, pacific white-sided dolphin, baleen whales, phoque commun, gray whale, american white pelican, triers, marsopa de dall, red phalarope, guillemot marmette, orca, albatros, geographic region, caspian tern, n real, pardela gris, scoters, leach's storm-petrel, mouettes, northern sea elephant, brandt's cormorant, northern fulmar, surf scoter, golfinho, falaropo cuello rojo, killer whale, sterne pierregarin, obis-seamap, ron, seals, sea lions, walruses, united states of america, baleia, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, guifette noire, dall's porpoise, phalacrocorax olivaceus, marbled godwit, plongeon huard, licans, grampus, ivory gulls, pelicans and allies, earth science, gaviota de thayer, paulard, lobo-marino californiano, baleines, black-legged kittiwake, northern minke whale, trels, ibises, spoonbills, cano pardo, lands, pato golondrino, short-beaked saddle-backed dolphin, gaviota ala glauca, eared grebe, turnstones, 
TITLE: Particulate Organic Carbon (POC) flux in the upper water column in the floating ice area in Chuckchi Sea. ABSTRACT: A sediment trap system (with open area 0.033 square meter) was deployed in the floating ice area of Chuckchi Sea (75N,161W) to determine the Particulate Organic Carbon (POC) and particular flux in summer. For the implementation of this project, a floating ice station was set up for the operation of deployment and recovery. Trap system was deployed at Euphotic zone and at 220m water depth. Euphotic zone depth was calculated based on light quantum data on L1-1000 datalogger and L1-193SA spherical quantum sensor.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sediment trap, photic zone, arctic, particulate organic carbon, amd, cn, particle flux, ocean optics, marine sediments, organic carbon, polar, ocean chemistry, chuckchi sea, optical depth, earth science, ceos, sediment traps, ships, ocean, organic matter, oceans, amd, geographic region, aphotic, photic zone, poc flux, 
TITLE: Labitzke Berlin Stratospheric Data: Northern Hemispheric Gridpoint Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Northern Hemisphere monthly mean and daily gridded geopotential heights and temperature. Gridded data are available from 10N to 90N at 10x10 degrees and 5x5 degrees at 100 hPa, 50 hPa, 30 hPa, and 10 hPa. For the 100-, 50- and 30-hPa level, climatological means for 30 years are available for temperature and geopotential height in both horizontal resolutions. Geopotential height data are available from 1962. Temperature data are available from 1964. Information on gridpoint data formats are available from: "http:  dss.ucar.edu cdroms karin_labitzke_strat_grids html section8.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, altitude, temperature anomalies, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, air temperature, usa, nasa, stratospheric temperatures, geopotential height, northern hemisphere, climate indices, ground stations, geographic region, stratosphere, climate change, 
TITLE: Carbon Tetrachloride (CCl4) Measured by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network at NOAA CMDL HATS. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has measured carbon tetrachloride (CCL4) from in situ gas chromtagraph (GC) data from NOAA CMDL HATS stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO) to suppport NOAA's Radiatively Important Trace Species (RITS) program. Currently only monthly data is available. Principal investigators for the HCFC flask measurements are: J. Elkins, T. Thompson (NOAA CMDL), and T. Swanson (CIRES) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats solvents ccl4" For more information on the NOAA CMDL HATS program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov hats ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic ocean, climate monitoring and diagnostics laboratory (noaa), american samoa, ccl4, greenhouse effect, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, cape matatula, usa, noaa, flasks, greenhouse gas, noaa, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, noah, chlorinated solvents, cmdl, radiatively important trace species 1989, polar, rits 89, ftp, trace gases, trace species, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, carbon tetrachloride, antarctica, colorado, atmospheric chemistry, global warming, samoa, gas chromatographs, ocean, niwot ridge, point barrow, mauna loa, amd, central pacific ocean, geographic region, flask, south pole, 
TITLE: Arctic Sky-Radiometer Measurement. ABSTRACT: Sky-radiometer (Prede, Model POM-01, POM-02) placed on the roof-top of Rabben Station in Ny-Alesund, Svalbard acquires direct solar spectral irradiance and circum-solar radiance distribution on a continuous operation basis with a typical time interval of 10 min, under conditions of the sun height being greater than 5 degrees, since 11 March 2000. No data is available for the polar night season as the sky-radiometry is based on solar radiation measurement.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, aerosols, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, solar irradiance, japanese antarctic research expedition, aerosol radiance, ipy, ocean, sky-radiometer, international polar year, atlantic ocean, jare, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Active Layer and Borehole Temperatures from La Foppa Rock Glaciers, Val Vallaccia, Central Italian Alps. ABSTRACT: The La Foppa site is a glacial cirque located in the upper part of the Val Vallaccia, near Livigno, in the Italian Central Alps. The La Foppa cirque is characterized by five rock glaciers, of which four are active and one is of uncertain activity or is inactive. These rock glaciers, especially the two largest, named La Foppa I and La Foppa II, have been the subject of geophysical investigations (Lozej and Guglielmin, 1992; Guglielmin et al., 1994; Guglielmin 1997) including BTS measurements (bottom temperature of snow; more than 70 measurements between 1990 and 1993) and STG measurements (shallow temperature of ground in summer) (Calderoni et al. 1993; Guglielmin and Tellini 1992, 1994; Guglielmin 1997). The distribution of BTS and STG measurements indicate that above 2800 asl the permafrost is continuous whereas below this elevation it is constrained inside the rock glaciers, where it is not continuous. Three boreholes have been established. One is in the frontal part of La Foppa I where the BTS values are always lower than -3 degrees C, and where the active layer detected with vertical electrical soundings (V.E.S.) ranges from 0.8 to 2.7 meters. The second borehole is in the central part of La Foppa I, where the BTS values range between -0.5 and -2.1 degrees C, and the V.E.S. indicate an active layer of 3 - 5.5 meters thick. The third borehole is located on the moraine ridge (of Late Glacial age) at 10 meters of the lateral slope of La Foppa I that overlaps the moraine ridge. Here the BTS values and V.E.S. point out the absence of permafrost. Near the third borehole there is a meteorological station that measures air temperature at 4 meters above the ground, snow cover, snow temperature every 20 cm up to 420 cm, precipitation, wind speed and direction, atmospheric pressure, relative humidity, and soil temperature at 2 and 30 cm depth. Borehole data are recorded on data loggers. A sample of the data is presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM. In this data file, data values must be divided by 10 to obtain the correct value.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, arctic, rock glaciers, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, southern europe, boreholes, discontinuous permafrost, soil temperature, snow, ice, land records, europe, italy, continuous permafrost, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, meteorology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, snow, ice temperature, permafrost, val vallaccia, central italian alps, italy, frozen ground, bts measurements, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Regional Climate Model Intercomparison Project (ARC-MIP) at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: An international intercomparison of 5 regional model simulations in the Arctic will be conducted using a common forcing dataset. The Arctic Modeling Intercomparison Project (ARC-MIP) will focus on the SHEBA year. The rationale for selecting this period is that high quality data are available from SHEBA, the ARM Barrow site, aircraft observations and several satellite remote sensing. In addition, extensive data are available from the Mackenzie GEWEX Study (MAGS), a series of large-scale hydrological and related atmospheric and land-atmosphere studies to be conducted within the Mackenzie Basin in Canada. Each of the modeling groups will focus on a different aspect of the model intercomparison, but there are some broader goals which can be addressed by this project including better understanding of processes and process parameterizations, model uncertainty and global climate model circulation simulations. For more information, please see "http:  data.eol.ucar.edu codiac projs?ARC-MIP".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, altitude, atmospheric temperature, v-component, specific humidity, arctic, arctic modeling intercomparison project, air temperature, usa, noaa, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, arc-mip, u-component, surface geopotential height, humidity, polar, models, ecmwf, surface pressure, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, earth science, ceos, sheba, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, model simulations, water vapor, geographic region, 
TITLE: Influence of Mean Climate Change on Climate Variability from a 155-year Tropical Pacific Coral Record from WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: [Summary from the online data description "ftp:  ftp.ngdc.noaa.gov paleo coral west_pacific readme_maiana.txt"] This data set is a 155-year ENSO reconstruction from a central tropical Pacific coral that provides new evidence for long-term changes in the regional mean climate and its variability. A gradual transition in the early 20th century and the abrupt change in 1976, both towards warmer wetter conditions, co-occur with changes in variability. In the mid-late 19th century, cooler drier background conditions coincided with prominent decadal variability; in the early 20th century, shorter-period (~2.9 years) variability intensified. After 1920, variability weakens and becomes focused at interannual time scales; with the shift in 1976, variability with a period of about 4 years becomes prominent. Our results suggest that variability in the tropical Pacific is linked to the region's mean climate, and that changes in both have occurred during periods of natural as well as anthropogenic climate forcing. Sampling and isotopic analysis: Cores (8.5 cm diameter) drilled from living coral colonies were slabbed and X-rayed to identify annual density bands and optimal sampling transects. Samples were drilled along the growth axis continuously at 1mm resolution. Stable isotopic analysis (d18O and d13C) of powdered samples was performed on a Micromass Optima with Isocarb automated preparation system at the University of Colorado's Institute for Arctic and Alpine Research. Analytical precision is =10.08 d18O and =10.05 d13C. The Maiana record is continuous except for a gap from 1901-1905, which we bridged through straight forward comparison and splicing of data from a coral record from nearby Tarawa Atoll.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, el nino southern oscillation, past global changes, igbp, arctic, climate variability, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, climate indicators, pages, del 18o, oxygen, igbp, sea surface temperature, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, maiana atoll, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, enso, coastal processes, ocean, coral reefs, oceans, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, teleconnections, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Yearly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Digital Bathymetric Data Base Variable Resolution (DBDB-V) from the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office (NAVOCEANO). ABSTRACT: The Digital Bathymetric Data Base Variable resolution (DBDBV) is a digital bathymetric data base that provides ocean depths at various gridded resolutions. DBDBV was developed by NAVOCEANO to support the generation of bathymetric chart products, and to provide bathymetric data to be integrated with other geophysical and environmental parameters for ocean modeling. Grid resolutions available include 0.5, 1, 2, and 5 minutes of latitude longitude (1 minute of latitude = 1 nautical mile or 1.852 km). For data coverage for each resolutions see Related URLs below. The data base for DBDBV consists of four file types. The depth information is expressed in meters, uncorrected at an assumed sound velocity of 1500 meters per second. The first file is a Master Index File that contains a pointer or byte address to each populated one degree cell for each of the resolutions available. The second file is an Index File that provides a linkage to the detailed depth values, as well as, a linkage to a description file associated with the depths. The third file, or Description File, provides details on the compressions, scaling and storage of the depth information. The fourth file is the Data File that contains the depth values for a on degree cell of a specific resolution. The geographic coverage of the 5 minute gridded bathymetry of the current version of DBDBV includes all ocean areas and adjacent seas above 78 degrees South latitude to 90 degrees North latitude. The geographic coverage of the 2 minute gridded bathymetry of the current version of DBDBV includes: a. Mediterranean Sea including the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea, b. Red Sea, c. Persian Gulf, d. Gulf of Aden west of 50 degrees East longitude, e. Gulf of Oman north of 23 degrees North latitude and west of 70 degrees East longitude, and f. an area encompassing the Bay of Biscay, Gulf of Cadiz and the Atlantic approaches to the Straits of Gibraltar bounded by 10 degrees West longitude, 30 degrees North latitude and 48 degrees North latitude. The geographic coverage of the 1 minute gridded bathymetry of the current version of DBDBV includes: a. Mediterranean Sea including the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea, b. an area of the Baltic Sea bounded by 15 degrees East longitude, 25 degrees East longitude, 54 degrees North latitude and 60 degrees North latitude, c. the Atlantic approaches to the Straits of Gibralter bounded by 10 degrees West longitude, 35 degrees North latitude and 40 degrees North latitude, and d. an area of the eastern Pacific bounded by the west coasts of Mexico and the United States, 140 degrees West longitude, 29 degrees North latitude and 45 degrees North latitude. The geographic extent of the 0.5 minute gridded bathymetry of the current version of DBDBV is selectively dispersed areas of the world. Another source for this data is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Geophysical Data Center (NOAA NGDC), as DBDBV is the bathymetry in ETOPO2, and is also contained in TerrainBase held at Bruce Gittings' Data Catalogue.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, commercial, digital elevation model, global bathymetry, navy, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, open-source project for a network data access protocol, dem, mediterranean sea, earth science information partners program, global ocean, seafloor topography, terrain, vertical location, polar, models, amd, us, southern ocean, global ocean data assimilation experiment, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, dods, bathymetry, surface model, oceans, navoceano_dbdbv, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, distributed oceanographic data system, godae, 
TITLE: L. Interim Lists of Changes to Municipal Boundaries, Status and Name, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Interim List is a report that provides a summary of changes to municipal boundaries, status and names. The list is produced on an annual basis for changes that occurred during the previous year. The Geography Division of Statistics Canada processes the municipal changes that are based on information received through provincial territorial gazettes, letters patent, and orders-in-council. The interim list may or may not include all those changes that have occurred within the given time period. Catalogue number for printed documents is: 92F0009XPB ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The Interim List is a report that provides a summary of changes to municipal boundaries, status and names.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, geographic names, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, census divisions, alberta, provincial differences, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, muncipalities, 
TITLE: The First Airborne Arctic Stratospheric Expedition (AASE-I) and the Meteorological Measurement System (MMS) Data CD-ROM's. ABSTRACT: The first CD-ROM contains the Second Edition of data pertaining to the First Airborne Arctic Stratospheric Expedition (AASE-I) which was based in Stavanger, Norway during January and February, 1989. The First Edition of this dataset, produced in March 1990, was corrupted by many data errors introduced during production of the CD-ROM. The form of the errors was a random conversion of characters to spaces but hopefully the random data errors are not present in this edition. The second CD-ROM contains all of the 5 Hz data from the ER-2 Meteorological Measurement System (MMS) taken during the 1989 AASE-I associated with flights during which mesoscale disturbances were observed. This disc was generated as an appendix to the primary AASE-I CD-ROM dataset. The data consists of measurements collected onboard the NASA ER-2 and DC-8 aircraft, ozonesonde soundings from three stations (Angmagssalik and Scoresbysund, Greenland, and Lerwick, U.K.), aerosol and temperature profiles from the SAM II spacecraft, global grid point values of Nimbus-7 TOMS ozone, and selected radiosonde soundings from stations in the region of the experiment. This expedition was aimed at studying the production and loss mechanisms of ozone in the north polar stratospheric environment, and the effect on ozone distribution of the Arctic polar vortex and of the cold temperatures associated with the formation of Polar Stratospheric Clouds (PSC). The mission was organized and funded by NASA, NOAA, NSF, universities, Chemical Manufacturers Association, and meteorological agencies overseas, utilizing similar instrumentation that was deployed during the Airborne Antarctic Ozone Experiment (AAOE) of 1987. Theory teams provided calculations of: potential vorticity along the ER-2 flight path; cross-sections of potential vorticity, temperature, and geopotential heights along the DC-8 flight path; cross-sections of Clx, Fx, HCl, HNO3, and NOy along the DC-8 flight path; global grid point values of temperature, geopotential heights, and horizontal winds on selected pressure surfaces; northern hemispheric grid point values of potential vorticity and pressure on selected potential temperature surfaces. Because of its limited range, the ER-2 is not be able to survey the entire Arctic region. The ER-2 measured ozone, chlorine monoxide, nitric oxide, reactive nitrogen, nitrous oxide, total water, bromine monoxide, nitric acid, condensation nuclei, aerosol size distribution, whole air sampling, and particle chemistry and size. The DC-8 can cover a greater range, enabling it to survey the polar vortex and air processed through the cold temperature region of the polar vortex. The DC-8 collected information similar to that of the ER-2, along with the vertical distribution of ozone and aerosols, methane, and in situ measurements of ozone. All files within this release are standard ASCII files with variable length records terminated by <CR><LF> (ASCII decimal values 13 and 10). In general, the file naming convention uses a two character prefix to identify the measurement, followed by a six digit number giving the year, month, and day (GMT) of the flight (or balloon launch). To identify the measurement platform, a three character name as in ER2, DC8, or Bhh is used to denote the data is from the ER-2, DC-8, or balloon (hh denotes the GMT hour of launch). AASE-I discovered that while NOx and to some degree NOy were perturbed within the arctic vortex, there was little evidence for desiccation. Under these (in contrast to the antarctic) marginally perturbed conditions, however, CLO was found to be dramatically enhanced such that a large fraction of the available (inorganic) chlorine resided in the form of CLO and its dimmer CLOOCL. A follow-up phase, AASE-II, was conducted in 1991 and 1992.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, total ozone mapping spectrometer, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, stratospheric aerosol measurement ii, light detection and ranging, arctic, sam-ii, halocarbons and halogens, photometers, nasa er-2, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, atmospheric pressure measurements, nimbus-7, interferometers, humidity, potential vorticity, mark iv interferometer, air quality, airborne arctic stratospheric expedition, nitric oxide, reactive nitrogen, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, o3, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, meteorological measurement system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ocean, water vapor, spectrometers, methane, profilers, geographic region, aerosol particle properties, altitude, aerosols, nitrous oxide, sun photometers, reactive nitrogen oxides, air temperature, clouds, troposphere, fourier transform spectrometers, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, ozone, geopotential height, particulate matter, mms, toms, lidar, cloud condensation nuclei, aerosol extinction, stratosphere, aase, polar, vertical location, carbon dioxide, ftir spectrometer, ozonesondes, temperature profilers, cd-rom, bromine monoxide, vorticity, earth science, oxygen compounds, n2o, usa, nasa, co, potential temperature, atmospheric pressure, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, upper air, nasa earth resources-2, hygrometers, 
TITLE: Psychological data (clinical, observational and psychometric) from Scott Base staff since the 1966 67 season. ABSTRACT: Accumulated data from clinical, observational and psychometric studies of the men who wintered over at Scott Base in successive parties was collected since the 1966 67 season to determine any changes that it may reflect and to compare the essential features of any profile obtained by psychometric means. Results and outcomes are outlined in the publications.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, psychological parameters, ceos, antarctica, human health, amd, nz, amd, human dimensions, geographic region, scott base, 
TITLE: Arctic Islands Glaciology Data. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes glaciology field measurements and ice core work. Data cannot be released unless user is familiar with data. Ice core measurements include oxygen 18, melt, pollen, chemistry with depth and time. The dataset consists of 500 files averaging 300 entries file.This data is used for monitoring past climate change and pollution levels in the Arctic.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, continent, geomorphology, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, particulate matter, paleontology, north america, surficial, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, glaciology, vertical location, polar, geochronology, geochemistry, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, climate, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, ice depth, thickness, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: Soil Invertebrate Fauna Nordaustlandet (Norway). ABSTRACT: Two data sets are available regarding soil fauna ecosystems: - Soil Fauna: Species checklist of species found in Nordaustlandet. - Soil Temperature: From 3 temperature loggers in Kinnvika.. KEYWORD: biological classification, animals, invertebrates, alpine, tundra, arthropods, arctic, north atlantic ocean, field surveys, entognatha, flasks, agriculture, chelicerates, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, hexapods, international polar year, soil temperature, soils, polar, kinnvika, soil sampler, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, terrestrial ecosystems, temperature probes, biosphere, collembola, acari, ipy, ocean, mites, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canadian National Gravity Anomaly Data Base. ABSTRACT: This dataset contains over 660,000 Bouguer and free air anomaly values covering the Canadian landmass, east and west offshore and Arctic Islands and channels. There is also information about the 5500 gravity control stations. The entire dataset is available as a 5 km grid which is updated annually. The geographic referencing of map projections are Lambert Conformal, Stereographic, Mercator, Universal Transverse Mercator, and Polyconic. The cost of the 2 km grid is $50 and a 1:5,000,000 scale plot is available for $50. The cost of point data is $0.01 per point. The complete data set is available for $200. A WWW access to the catalogue of all products available is at http:  gdcinfo.agg.nrcan.gc.ca index_e.html click on geophysical catalogue of products and services.Parameters and convergences of geological provinces and ancient impact scars. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, free air anomaly values, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, free-air anomalies, bouguer anomaly values, north pacific ocean, polar, cd-rom, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, geodetics, gravity, quebec, alberta, bouguer anomalies, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, gravity, new brunswick, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Annual Thaw Depths and Water Depths in Tanana Flats, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Thaw depths and water depths were monitored at 1 m to 2 m intervals along a 255-m transect across an area of discontinuous and degrading permafrost on the Tanana Flats south of Fairbanks, Alaska. Measurements were taken once a year in late August from 1995 to 2002 to show effects of winter snow depths, climate warming, and vegetation and wetland creation-surface subsidence. Data are in a single tab-delimited ASCII text file, available via FTP.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, continent, polar, ggd, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ground water, water table, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, united states of america, permafrost, water depth, north america, alaska, frozen ground, thaw depth, geographic region, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Monthly Waterbird Ferry Transects Blacks Harbour - North Head, Grand Manan. ABSTRACT: This data set contains monthly survey data from the Blacks Harbour   North Head, Grand Manan Island ferry, lower Bay of Fundy, Canada. It covers waterbird, seabird and some sea mammal data, collected with unlimited width surveys (relative abundance) from one side of the ferry (PIROP protocol) throughout the years 1997-1999.. KEYWORD: seabird ecology, gulf of maine, continent, polar, seabird monitoring, biological classification, arctic, earth science, sea mammal surveys, grand manan island, seabird surveys, atlantic canada, bay of fundy, usa, nasa, birds, animals, vertebrates, seabirds, canada, north america, maritimes (canada), the wolves archipelago, new brunswick, geographic region, index of relative abundance, 
TITLE: Cariaco Basin 50KYr Radiocarbon Calibration and Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: Cariaco Basin 50KYr Radiocarbon Calibration and Reconstruction. Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS) 14C data from planktonic foraminifera from Ocean Drilling Program Site 1002, cores 1002D and 1002E, Cariaco Basin (10 deg. 42.73'N, 65 deg. 10.18'W, 893m. depth) ABSTRACT (from the online documentation): A series of 14C measurements in Ocean Drilling Program cores from the tropical Cariaco Basin, which have been correlated to the annual-layer counted chronology for the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2 (GISP2) ice core, provides a high-resolution calibration of the radiocarbon time scale back to 50,000 years before the present. Independent radiometric dating of events correlated to GISP2 suggests that the calibration is accurate. Reconstructed 14C activities varied substantially during the last glacial period, including sharp peaks synchronous with the Laschamp and Mono Lake geomagnetic field intensity minimal and cosmogenic nuclide peaks in ice cores and marine sediments. Simulations with a geochemical box model suggest that much of the variability can be explained by geomagnetically modulated changes in 14C production rate together with plausible changes in deep-ocean ventilation and the global carbon cycle during glaciation. This work was supported by NSF (OCE-0117356), Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LDRD-97-ERI-009), and the U.S. Department of Energy (W-7405-Eng-48).. KEYWORD: microfossils, reconstructions, arctic ocean, foraminifers, biological classification, sediment corers, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, cariaco basin, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, bulloides, pages, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, isotopes, carbon, quaternary, protists, amoeboids, 14c, polar, ocean chemistry, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, carbon cycle, carbon 14, ships, ocean, paleo start date 50 ka, radiocarbon time scale, radiocarbon, oceans, paleo stop date 0 ka, atlantic ocean, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: FILING AND SEISMIC TREATMENT CENTRE (EOST - STRASBOURG). ABSTRACT: ENGLISH Seismic data of the EOPGS Marine Geophysics Lab and of French laboratories. The Seismic Processing and Archiving Centre (CATS) is in charge of archiving and distributing ECORS (Study of the Continents and Oceans by Seismic Reflection) and Marine Geosciences data. It also maintains for the French earth science community the tools necessary for reflection seismic processing. It is the French centre for the distribution of SDLS data (Antarctic Seismic Data Library System for cooperative research) from SCAR's (Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research) ANTOSTRAT program. It is a partner in the SEISCAN project in charge of digitizing and distributing analog paper seismic data from the European Marine Zones (MAST 3 project). The CATS has been designated as a "Resource Network" of the IDYL project (Imagerie et Dynamique de la Lithosphere) funded by CNRS INSU. Its purpose is to archive and to distribute data (ECORS, Lithoscope, GPS, SPOT pictures, digital earth models, GPF drillings, marine seismics, sonar pictures, magnetic and aeromagnetic logs, GEOSCOPE, accelerometry, permanent observatories...) to the scientific community. The CATS is located at the Ecole et Observatoire des Sciences de la Terre, a component of Universite Louis Pasteur. It is part of CNRS UMR Institut de Physique du Globe. FRANCAIS Le Centre d'Archivage et de Traitement Sismique (CATS) assure l'archivage et la diffusion des donnees ECORS et Geosceiences Marines: sismique reflexion mono- et multitrace des chaines d'acquisition de l'EOPGS, de l'FREMER et d'autres organismes de recherche (Repertoire des donnees en ligne). Il met a la disposition de la communaute scientifique francaise des sciences de la terre les moyens necessaires au traitement des donnees sismiques. Il est le centre francais de diffusion des donnees SDLS (Antarctic Seismic Data Library System for cooperative research) du programme ANTOSTRAT du SCAR (Scientific Commitee on Antarctic Research). Il est le partenaire du projet SEISCAN de numerisation et de diffusion des donnees sismiques papier dans les zones marines europeennes (projet de recherche finance par la commission europeenne). Le CATS a ete mis en place dans le cadre du volet "Reseau de ressources" du projet IDYL (Imagerie et Dynamique de la Lithosphere) du CNRS INSU; il s'inscrit dans l'objectif d'archiver de maniere plus coherente, pour mieux mettre a la disposition de la communaute scientifique et pour une exploitation maximale, les donnees (ECORS , Lithoscope, GPS, imagerie SPOT, modeles numeriques de terrain, forages GPF, sismique marine, images sonar, leves magnetiques et aeromagnetiques, GEOSCOPE, accelerometrie, observatoires permanents...). Le CATS a ete soutenu par le programme GeoFrance3D. Le CATS se trouve a l'Ecole et l'Observatoire des Sciences de la Terre qui est une composante de l'Universite Louis Pasteur. Il fait partie de l'UMR CNRS 7516, Institut de Physique du Globe de Strasbourg.. KEYWORD: solid earth, study of the continents and oceans by seismic reflection, continent, seismic profiling, seismology, global, sea cruises, scar_sdls, seismic profile, scar_antostrat, seiscan, arctic, fr, polar, southern ocean, bathymetry, underway geophysics, earth science, ceos, antarctica, geology, geophysics, sedimentation, offshore, ecors, sismique relexion, ships, seiscan project, ocean, amd, fr, couverture mondiale, scar antarctic offshore stratigraphy program, amd, world wide coverage, scar antarctic seismic data library system for cooperative research, geographic region, 
TITLE: Active Layer Physical Processes at Broeggerhalvoya, Western Spitsbergen. ABSTRACT: These data have been collected from an Arctic desert site (latitude 78o57'29N, longitude 12o27'42E), Broeggerhalvoya in western Spitsbergen, 10 km NW from Ny Alesund, 45 m above sea level, 2 km from the shore. This is a low relief tip of a bedrock peninsula covered with several meters of glacial drift and reworked raised beach ridges. The measurements are obtained in the site of well developed patterned ground, sorted polygons, where the influence of plants, including thermal insulation and transpiration, is negligible. The 1985-1986 period was average. Mean annual air temperature was -6.6 C, 0.4 C colder than the long-term (1975-1990) mean, but well within the mean variability. Mean winter air temperature is relatively warm (mean of coldest month, February, is -14.6 C). Annual precipitation was 17 % greater than the long-term mean (372 mm); however, the number of rain-on-snow events was less (3) than average (5.5). Overall, the reference period is close to long-term averages. A program of automated soil temperature recordings was initiated in the summer of 1984, at a patterned ground field site Thermistors were placed approximately 0.1 m apart in an epoxy-filled PVC rod (18 mm outside diameter), buried in the center of a fine-grained domain of a sorted circle, down to 1.14 m below the ground surface. The data presented here covers 7 1 85-7 1 86, once a day (6 am), at two levels (0.0 m, 1.145 m below surface). The resolution of the thermistors is 0.004 C, and the accuracy is estimated to be 0.02 C near 0 C. Missing data accounts for less than 7 %. The gaps are filled with simple average of the beginning and end of the gap values. For a detailed description of the field site and data analysis see Putkonen (1997) and Hallet and Prestrud (1986). These data are presented on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, June 1998.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, active layer, ggd, arctic, north atlantic ocean, usa, noaa, precipitation, thermal properties, soil temperature, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, permafrost temperature, meteorology, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, solar radiation, land surface, broeggerhalvoya, near ny alesund, western spitsbergen (svalbard), permafrost, ocean, snow, frozen ground, soil properties, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Canada Air Pilot. ABSTRACT: The Canada Air Pilot (CAP) contains aeronautical information that is pertinent to the conduct of the arrival or departure portion of flight: instrument approach procedures, standard instrument departure procedures, standard terminal arrival routes, noise abatement procedures, and aerodrome charts. Seven volumes provide coverage across Canada, in a wire bound format. The regional provincial volumes are divided as follows: CAP 1: Yukon, Nunavut and Northwest Territories CAP 2: British Columbia CAP 3: Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba CAP 4: Ontario CAP 5: Quebec (English) CAP 6: Quebec (French) CAP 7: Atlantic Provinces CAP Gen: Contains general pages for all volumes except CAP6*. CAP Gen is amended and reissued as required. *CAP 6 in French contains its own general pages.Used by pilots for instrument approach and departure as well as noise abatement procedures. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome location indicators, Radio navigation aid indicators Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, terrain elevation, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, hypsography, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, air pressure, boundaries, human dimensions, terrain slope gradient, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, buildings, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, gcmd, nunavut, northwest territories, communications, saskatchewan, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, contours, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, prince edward island, infrastructure, 
TITLE: Barents Sea Plankton Data. ABSTRACT: Barents Sea Plankton Data: 1952 - Present Day In the early 1950's, PINRO initiated annual plankton research expeditions. PINRO regularly conducted 3 surveys a year. To obtain good material on the most abundant plankton species - Calanus and Euphausiacea - surveys must be carried out at different times, using different fishing gear. Mesoplankton were surveyed during summer and autumn when copepods develop intensively and all age groups are concentrated in 0-50m. Juday net(gauze #38, opening size 37cm) with a locker was used for sampling. Plankton were fished in the vertical regime at 0-50m, 50-100m, 100-200m and 200-bottom. Macroplankton were surveyed in winter when all age groups of Euphausiacea are concentrated in the near bottom layers and can be sampled using one set of fishing gear. The net (gauze #140, opening size 50cm) was fastened on the headline of a fishing trawl. The net was used to fish macroplankton in the horizontal regime 6-10m from the bottom at 2.5 n.miles hr, filtering 1000m3 of water. All materials obtained are annually processed, recorded on special forms together with the data on sampling conditions and abiotic factors and stored in the PINRO Laboratory of Marine Biology. In the laboratory, samples are examined with a binocular microscope at 2x8 magnification and copepods are counted in the random camera. The samples are statistically and graphically processed. The objective of this work is to reveal the regularities of formation of the Barents Sea Plankton community and to investigate its role in water trophicity. The activities include investigations of interannual dynamics of plankton related to advection of Atlantic waters and consumption of plankton. The results of these theoretical investigations are used by PINRO in order to determine future food supply for different fishes and serve as a prognostic predictor in fisheries forecasting.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, field surveys, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, russia, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, igbp, europe, barents sea, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, zooplankton, earth science, barent sea, time series, usa, nasa, biosphere, eastern europe, ships, ocean, calanus, euphausiacea, geographic region, globec, 
TITLE: Long-Term CO2 Flux Measurements at Harvard Forest from the AmeriFlux Program: 1990-1996, at CDIAC. ABSTRACT: The Harvard Forest environmental measurement site is part of the AmeriFlux network of field research projects quantifying the exchange of carbon dioxide between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. The Harvard Forest AmeriFlux database contains approximately 53,000 hourly CO2, water vapor, and energy exchange measurements using the eddy covariance technique. The database also contains approximately 62,000 hourly reactive trace gas profiles (CO, O3, NO2, and NOy) and approximately 29,000 hourly measurements for twenty different hydrocarbon species (ethane, ethene, etc.). The Harvard Forest consists of records from 1990 through 1996. CDIAC re-processed the data the data to conform to naming conventions and data reporting standards agreed to be the AmeriFlux Science Team. The files contain timestamps relative to January 1990 to facilitate future integration and synthesis of data across the entire AmeriFlux network. Data from the Harvard Forest Ameriflux site is available directly from CDIAC at: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov programs ameriflux " More information on the Harvard Forest Environmental Site is available from: "http:  www-as.harvard.edu chemistry hf index.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, water vapor flux, cyclopentane, propane, propene, nitrogen dioxide, no2, isobutane, northern hemisphere, north america, molecular nitrogen, massachusetts, net radiation, t-2-pentene, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, acetylene, 1,3-butadiene, reactive trace gases, ground-based observations, par, canopy air temperature, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, 1-butene, isoprene, relative humidity, o3, hydrocarbons, wind speed, carbon monoxide, wind direction, sensible heat flux, solar radiation, 3-methyl-1-butene, pentane, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, soil temperature profiles, gosic, gcos, methylcyclopentane, 2-methyl-2-butene, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, gas chromatographs, water vapor, tnr, ameriflux, gosic, thermopile net radiometer, geographic region, 2-methyl-2-butane, atmospheric radiation, propyne, continent, chemiluminescence, co2, vegetation, energy balance, air temperature, ozone, total nitrogen oxide, ethene, gas correlation filters, united states of america, butane, licor quantum sensor, noy, heat flux, soils, photosynthetically active radiation sensors, surface winds, carbon dioxide, hexane, earth science, oxygen compounds, harvard forest, thermistors, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, usa, nasa, co, par sensors, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ethane, nitrogen oxides, cyclohexane, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: SCAR (02-03) Epoch GPS Campaign. ABSTRACT: Antarctic plate movement monitoring Geodynamics Research, the International Antarctic attention to the academic years of large-scale, long-period research project, belonging to the Antarctic environment for long-term changes in the scope of the study. Our country from the "Eighth Five-Year Plan" started in this field. From the beginning of 92 years, SCAR more than a dozen organizations to coordinate more than 30 countries to participate in the annual Antarctic station for the 22 days of the Battle of the Joint Antarctic GPS measurements. China's two Antarctic stations from 94 years to start participating in international cooperation in the study. GPS measurements by the International Joint SCAR-WGGGI organize a large-scale international cooperation in scientific research projects. With the aim of: 1) measurement of the Antarctic plate with the adjacent plate, as well as micro-plate relative motion between the rate and direction of its movement; 2) determine the Antarctic plate within the various pieces of the crust between the relative movement; 3) reunification of the Antarctic base of the vertical system, to determine the Antarctic stations tide elevation above sea level; 4), due to melting ice and ocean changes in the load caused by the Antarctic lithosphere, the vertical movement and so on, "the world's interaction with Antarctic" scientific research. The GPS measurements of the International Alliance of time for the 2003 1 on 20 on 00:00 (UTC) -2003 year on February 10 24:00 (UTC), a total time of 22 days, the daily requirement for a 24-hour observation. Actual observation time for the January 10, 2003 to February 28, 2003. The Alliance of the measured use of Trimble 4000 ssi by Wuhan University of Surveying and Mapping Institute, with its L1, L2 dual-phase output, and can accept yuan GPS satellite P code for the international advanced, high-precision, international joint testing and a number of global IGS (International GPS Service) site commonly used.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, gps receivers, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, plate tectonics, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, tectonics, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: Meridian Scanning Photometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2001. ABSTRACT: The Auroral Meridian Scanning Photometer is to measure the absolute intensity of aurora brightness along the geomagnetic meridian line. At present the MSP records three wavelengths of auroral emissions at 427.8, 557.7 and 630 nm respectively. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, masp, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, photometers, zhongshan station, solar energetic particle properties, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectrophotometers, amd, ground stations, geographic region, mobile automatic scanning photometer, 
TITLE: met.no DAMOCLES sea ice operational ice concentration and sst. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ice concentration (fraction of ice), and sea surface temperature analysis from the met.no operational coupled ice-ocean model Arctic-20. Each file contains one month of daily analysis valid at 00 GMT. The quality of this data set will vary due to model upgrades, and should therefore in the long term, improve with time. New model-versions are tested semi-operationally before they are included in this data set.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, asimillation, sea_water_temperature, sea_ice_area_fraction, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, ice, forecast, sea, arctic, no, ipy, ocean, nordic seas, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Monthly L3 Global Ascending Descending .25x.25 deg Ocean Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. Measurements of ocean variables improve our understanding of a wide variety of hydrological and radiative processes, including air-sea and air-ice interactions. The Level-2B ocean swath product (AE_Ocean) contains Sea Surface Temperature (SST) at 56 km and 38 km resolution, near-surface wind speed at 38 km and 21 km resolution, columnar water vapor at 21 km resolution, columnar cloud liquid water at 12 km resolution, and quality flags. All variables were measured over oceans and are generated from the Wentz algorithm. The Level-3 daily product (AE_DyOcn), weekly product (AE_WkOcn), and monthly product (AE_MoOcn) include SST, near-surface wind speed, columnar water vapor, and columnar cloud liquid water over oceans in a 0.25 degree by 0.25 degree grid, generated from AE_Ocean. Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, greenhouse gases, cloud precipitable water, eos, water temperature, ocean temperature, equatorial trade winds, echo, usa, noaa, liquid cloud water, columnar water vapor, aqua, cloud liquid water, imagery, global ocean, ocean water temperatures, sea surface temperature, amsr-e, vertically integrated cloud liquid water, column water vapor, remote sensing, ae_moocn, cloud droplets, atmospheric water vapor, passive microwave, atmospheric winds, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, columnar cloud water, sea surface winds, oceans, geographic region, indian ocean, eos pm-1, clouds, sea surface wind speeds, eosdis, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, ocean heat flux, ocean thermal energy, radiance, surface winds, ocean winds, near-surface wind speeds, pacific ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, vertically integrated water vapor over oceans, daac, sea surface temperatures, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, atlantic ocean, esip, 
TITLE: NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 16th Voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research in 1999-2000. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ship reception system at Xuelong of the 16th Voyage of the Chinese Antarctic Research in 1999-2000.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, polar, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, visible wavelengths, ocean, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: WDC for Glaciology, Boulder NSIDC Information Center Library Collection. ABSTRACT: Bibliographic information for documents held by the Information Center (Library) of the World Data Center-A for Glaciology and by the National Snow and Ice Data Center is stored in an off-line machine-readable database. Access is by author, title, publication date, language, subject, geographic location. Journal articles, reprints, technical reports and conference or compendium papers are catalogued individually, as are all monographs. The database contains no abstracts. Subjects covered include sea ice, polar ice masses, freshwater ice, glaciers, seasonal snow cover, avalanches, permafrost, paleoglaciology, and climate change. Semi-controlled vocabulary of subject descriptors is based on the Library of Congress Cold Regions Bibliography Project U.S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) vocabulary. Several products provide access to the collection for on-site and remote users: 1) author, title, subject and geographic access via an in-house PC data base; 2) New Accessions List, a quarterly publication, provides subject access to items received during the previous quarter; 3) custom searches by Information Center staff produce paper listings for mail, telephone or in-person requests. Document delivery is keynote of services provided. The database is also available on the Arctic and Antarctic Regions CD-ROM produced by NISC (National Information Services Corporation), Suite 6, Wyman Towers, 3100 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, MD 21218 USA. Currently, the disc is updated semi-annually and indexes over 750,000 citations relating to polar regions research, including 35,000 from WDC-A NSIDC. Copies of any items held in the collection are available for 20 cents per page, $10 minimum charge per order. All orders are shipped within 48 hours of receipt. Interlibrary loans are available for some items. Database searches are available on request. Please inquire.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, literature search, arctic, climatic change, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, river ice, snow cover, technical reports, sea ice, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, antarctic, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, libraries, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, antarctica, bibliographies, glaciers, ice sheets, ice sheets, glaciation, permafrost, avalanches, frozen ground, avalanche, oceans, amd, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: Time Series of Active Layer Thickness in the Russian Arctic, 1930-1990. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of active layer thickness (ALT) measurements based on soil temperatures in the Russian Arctic. The active layer is the top layer of ground that freezes in the winter and thaws in the summer over permafrost. Changes in ALT over northern high-latitude permafrost regions have important impacts on the surface energy balance, hydrologic cycle, carbon exchange between the atmosphere and the land surface, plant growth, and ecosystem as a whole. Warming may thicken the active layer and induce permafrost thaw. Investigators collected data from 35 ground-based stations. Derived from monthly averages, the record includes annual maximum active layer depths from 1930 to 1990. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, russia, active layer thickness, opp-0229766, thermometers, soil temperature, active layer depth, ground stations, europe, ground-based observations, polar, earth science, cryosphere, arctic soils, arcss160, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, eastern europe, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Collaborative Research: Polar Experiment Network for Geospace Upper-atmosphere Investigations (PENGUIn) - A New Vision for Global Studies. ABSTRACT: This project will continue the operation of surface-based magnetometers, imaging and broadbeam riometers (relative ionospheric opacity instruments), and two-wavelength zenith photometers at South Pole and McMurdo stations in Antarctica, and imaging riometers at Iqaluit (nominally conjugate to South Pole) and Sondrestrom in the Arctic. Additionally, the data acquisition systems at South Pole and McMurdo for the common recording of other geophysical data, and the provision of these data to collaborating investigators will be continued. The Antarctic data sets are web-based, and can be accessed in near-real time. The continuation of the activities in the 2004-2006 time frame will contribute to several major science initiatives, including the GEM (Geospace Environment Modeling), CEDAR (Coupling, Energetics and Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions), ISTP GGS (International Solar-Terrestrial Project Global Geospace Science), and National Space Weather programs. The overall objective of the project is to understand the relevant physical processes that produce the observed phenomena, and how they relate to driving forces, either internal, such as magnetospheric ionospheric instabilities, or external, such as solar wind interplanetary magnetic field variations. It is expected that this project will lead to an enhanced capability to predict sufficiently in advance the possible occurrence of events that might have negative technological or societal impacts, and thus provide time to lessen their effects.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, amd, us, magnetometers, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, plasma waves, antarctica, usa, nsf, relative ionospheric opacity meter, sun-earth interactions, amd, geographic region, riometer, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Downwelling surface radiative fluxes at Bear Island. ABSTRACT: Downwelling surface radiative fluxes observed at the meteorological station at Bear Island in the Barents Sea. Measurements are made using Kipp and Zonen CMP21 and CGR4 pyranometers and pyrgeometers. Daily maintenance is performed by the meteorological personnel at the station. Data are averaged over the last minute and the time is set to UTC. This data set has been collected with support from the Norwegian Research Council. The quality control focus on the radiative parameters, thus sensor temperatures may contain errors.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, shortwave radiation, radiative, earth science, surface_net_downward_longwave_flux, surface_downwelling_shortwave_flux, arctic, no, longwave radiation, ipy, ocean, net radiation, flux, atmospheric radiation, barents sea, 
TITLE: Alaska Radiocarbon Data Base; USGS, Menlo Park. ABSTRACT: This data base contains published radiocarbon dates with entries consisting of laboratory and reference numbers. The data set is subdivided into two segments including RCFILE which contains the radiocarbon dates and author citation; and RCBIB which is a complete bibliography of all published dates. The RCFILE can be sorted by date, author citation, latitude and longitude, geographic region, and quadrangle. The RCFILE is run using the software program 'Nutshell.' The combined size of the two files is 1,092,908 bytes. There are 3,609 radiocarbon age determinations (published ages with a reference). The following is a breakdown of the number of age determinations by geographic region: Northern 997, East-Central 417, West-Central 332, Southern 769, Southwestern 603, Southeastern 448, Offshore 35, and General 8.. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, continent, rcfile, arctic, aedd, earth_land_usgs_ak_radiocarbon, radiocarbon age determinations, geology, paleoclimate, stratigraphy, age determinations, geologic age, marine geology, united states of america, usgs, gd, north america, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, isotopes, alaska, carbonate percentage, carbon-14, tectonics, idn_node gsfc, alaska, menlo park, usgs, edc, land records, geochronology, geochemistry, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, ceos, land surface, carbon 14, sedimentary rocks, radiocarbon, rocks, minerals, usgs, carbon isotopes, eros, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: UARS Halogen Occultation Experiment (HALOE) Level 3AT V001 (UARHA3AT) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: The HALOE home page on the WWW is "http:  haloe.gats-inc.com home index.php". The Halogen Occultation Experiment (HALOE) on NASA's Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) investigates upper atmosphere chemistry, dynamics and radiative processes, particlarly stratospheric ozone destruction and chlorofluromethane impact on ozone. HALOE is a solar occultation experiment designed to monitor the vertical distribution of HCl, HF, CH4, and NO by gas filter correlation radiometry and H2O, NO2, O3, and CO2 by broadband filter radiometry. The HALOE instrument typically views 15 sunrise and sunset events each day, scanning the solar disk from limb to limb during each event. The latitude longitude location of the HALOE data varies with the spacecraft-Earth-Sun position. For a given day, the locations tend to be in two distinct latitude bands and to sweep across the full longitude range. Coverage across the full range of latitudes is achieved on a time period ranging from about two to six weeks depending on the time of year. The latitude coverage extends from 80 degrees north to 80 degrees south. The HALOE level 3AT data consist of 13 granules per day. A data granule is one HALOE species or subtype per day. The following subtypes are available: 1) AEXTCH4 - aerosol extinction at 3.46 um (CH4 gas filter), 2) AEXTCO2 - aerosol extinction at 2.80 um (CO2 gas filter), 3) AEXTHCL - aerosol extinction at 3.40 um (HCL gas filter), 4) AEXTHF - aerosol extinction at 2.45 um (HF gas filter), 5) AEXTNO - aerosol extinction at 5.26 um (NO gas filter), 6) CH4 - methane, 7) H2O - water vapor, 8) HCL - hydrogen chloride, 9) HF - hydrogen fluoride, 10) NO - nitric oxide, 11) NO2 - nitrogen dioxide, 12) O3 - ozone, and 13) TEMP - atmospheric temperature. Aerosol extinction coefficients are measured in units of 1 km, chemical species are given in parts per million by volume (ppmv), and temperature is in units of degrees Kelvin. Each of the 13 HALOE granules is accompanied by 2 additional parameter files, designated as level 3TP. The first parameter file, subtype LAT, contains the latitude values for each pressure level of each event for the day. The second parameter file, subtype LON, contains the longitude values. The level 3AT files only contain the latitude longitude location corresponding to the 30 km retrieval point. The HALOE level 3AT data product consist of profiles that have been interpolated both vertically and horizontally from the original profiles to standard surfaces and locations defined by the UARS project for all limb-viewing instruments. The level 3AT format is common to all UARS instruments to allow for intercomparison. The level 3AT data product consists of time-ordered profiles, and are spaced at intervals of 1 UARS minute (65.536 seconds), or about 495 km along the tangent track (horizontal resolution). The vertical resolution for the level 3AT HALOE profiles is defined by the UARS pressure levels (in mbars) given by: P(i) = 1000 * 10**(-i 6) for i = 0, 1, 2, ... which gives approximately 2.5 km increments between pressure surfaces.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, arctic, echo, nitrogen dioxide, no2, haloe level 3a, middle atmosphere, humidity, mesosphere, air quality, nitric oxide, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, o3, hydrogen chloride, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric chemistry, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, photochemistry, methane, amd, geographic region, upper atmosphere research satellite, no, aerosols, hydrogen fluoride, global, air temperature, ozone, eosdis, haloe, hcl, earth science information partners program, daily data, upper atmosphere, aerosol extinction, stratosphere, vertical location, polar, amd, us, h2o, halogen occultation experiment, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, stratospheric chemistry, usa, nasa, ch4, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, ozone chemistry, esip, uars, hydrochloric acid, hf, 
TITLE: Arctic Global Radiation (AGR) Data Set. ABSTRACT: Radiation data were compiled and computed from many sources in the Arctic to produce a two-part Arctic Global Radiation (AGR) data set. The first part includes a time series of monthly fluxes from land stations, ocean drifting stations and empirically derived long-term climatological estimates from earlier Russian studies. While many of the station time series are quite short, some span over 40 years. Data are provided for the region north of 60 degrees N. The second part is a long-term monthly mean gridded climatology for the region north of 65 degrees N, based on the AGR-1 data set. For the most comprehensive information on this data set, read the extensive documentation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, opp9614297, shortwave radiation, arctic, ocean drifting station, usa, noaa, arctic system science, nasa grant nagw2407, usa, nsf, opp-9321547, russia, alaska, flux, ground stations, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, heat flux, nasa grant nagw-2407, opp9321547, polar, arcss, oaii, sheba, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, arcss066, longwave radiation, national science foundation, opp-9504201, canada, ocean weather stations, ocean heat budget, radiation, ocean platforms, opp-9614297, climatology, oceans, opp9504201, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Fuel Model Algorithm Refinement and Model Validations for Eastern US Tree Species. ABSTRACT: Field data are collected to evaluate for modeled estimates of live and dead aboveground woody forest biomass and develop correlations among fire-related vegetation and biophysical parameters. To increase confidence in our biomass estimation approach, we compare our model-derived estimates with eastern FIA database forest biomass variables. One component of this evaluation examines the accuracy and variability associated with current aboveground live woody biomass estimates, employing the FIA plot-level (P2) dataset, which consists of approximately 77,500 plots (48,000 of those being forested ) and 1,300,000 trees located across the southeastern region. Our estimates of dead woody biomass are evaluated against a subset of approximately 900 FIA P3 plots inventoried by the FHM Program. The purpose of the data is to assess species composition, abundance and distribution of the infauna of the Arctic Canada Basin.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, fine woody debris, biomass, fire behavior, litter, southeastern united states, down woody materials, down deadwood, fuel bed height, forest carbon, arctic, earth science, vegetation, fuels, biosphere, usa, usda, coarse woody debris, united states of america, north america, carbon, fine woody materials, shrub cover, geographic region, 
TITLE: NOAA AVHRR and TOVS Digital CCT product in SHARP level 1B format. ABSTRACT: SHARP is the ESA-Earthnet format for AVHRR and TOVS data. It stands for Standard-family HRPT Archive Request Product. It adopts the internationally-recognised Standard-Family Tape Format as defined by the Landsat Technical Working Group (LTWG). AVHRR scenes (4 minutes of data), which can cover an area 3000 x 6000km, are provided in SHARP format. TOVS data (the low-data-rate atmospheric sounding package on the NOAA satellite) is also provided, for the entire pass, with each AVHRR scene. Auxiliary information such as ground reference points, orbit and attitude data, calibration coefficients and geographical information (coastline, state boundaries and or latitude longitude grid flags) are also provided with the image data. SHARP-1 is the implementation of the superstructure concept of the High-Resolution Picture Transmission (HRPT). It contains the raw digital data with the supplementary information like latitude longitude Grid, coastlines, state boundaries. Image Navigation (location) is carried out during Level 1 data generation, using the orbital model for the satellite location, and is tested by an operator who carries out further correction if necessary. To order data, please see &http:  earth.esa.int contactus &. KEYWORD: atmosphere, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, western asia, ocean temperature, habitat conversion, fragmentation, brazilian coast, global terrestrial observing system, north russia, noaa-10, oil spill, desertification, noaa-14, sst, noaa-12, center africa, sea ice, imagery, noaa-11, south america, humidity, spectral, engineering, sea surface temperature, infrared wavelengths, mapping, africa, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, biosphere, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, atmospheric chemistry, middle east, oceans, gosic, north africa, continent, saudi arabia, visible imagery, reforestation, north atlantic ocean, equatorial, tovs, esa, esrin, northern africa, europe, polar, saudi-arabia, oxygen compounds, cryosphere, environmental impacts, oceanography, eurasia, sea surface, north america, northern canada, human dimensions, land cover, thermal infrared, gtos, meteorology, western russia, central africa, deforestation, visible wavelengths, ocean, canada, water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, regional deforestation, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, tiros operational vertical sounder, regional desertification, brazil, vegetation, ozone, mediterranean sea, snow, ice, avhrr, vertical location, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, regional reforestation, noaa-8, noaa-9, noaa-7, atlantic ocean, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Geology Maps for the NWT. ABSTRACT: A collection of paper and digital map publications of the Northwest Territories Geoscience Office. Maps are mostly at 1:50,000 to 1:250,000 scale and cover various areas of the Northwest Territories. Areal coverage is not complete or uniform. Mapping for this collection began in the 1970s and continues at a variable rate, with one or more 1:50,000 scale maps covering a 50K or 250K NTS sheet area being produced each summer. Earlier work was paper which is now scanned, later work was digital in AutoCAD, recent work is digital atlases in ArcView 3   ESRI shapefile format. Samples are taken for age dating, geochemical analysis, assay, structure and petrology. Tabular data and reports may accompany maps.To advance geoscience knowledge of the Northwest Territories, and to provide base information for land use planning, mineral and petroleum exploration, and other public endeavours.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, geomorphology, natural resources, seismology, arctic, mineral exploration, geology, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, geothermal, tectonics, polar, geochemistry, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: All-Sky TV Camera Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2002 dataset. ABSTRACT: All-sky TV camera is to monitor auroral displays nearly 180 degrees in filed of view, it consists of all-sky camera, control box, timing generator, timer corrector, two VHS recorders, SVHS recorders and TEAC recorder. The all-sky video data is recorded on VHS tapes with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other copy goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, earth science, ceos, all-sky camera, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Seawater Chemistry from the North Pole Environmental Observatory, 2000-2004. ABSTRACT: This data set includes diverse measurements of seawater chemistry along with supplementary conductivity, temperature, depth (CTD); pressure; salinity; potential temperature; and density data from the Arctic Ocean near the North Pole. Measurements were taken from sea ice platforms each April from 2000-2004. Investigators used a CTD-O2 system to measure seawater conductivity, temperature, depth, and dissolved oxygen content, and collected Niskin bottle samples for measurements of salinity, oxygen isotope composition, and concentrations of phosphate, silicic acid, nitrate, nitrite, ammonium, and barium. The available in situ dissolved oxygen measurements were collected beginning in 2002. The North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) is a year-round, automated scientific observatory, deploying various instruments each April in order to learn how the world's northernmost sea helps regulate global climate. It consists of a set of unmanned scientific platforms that record oceanographic, cryospheric, and atmospheric data throughout the year. More information about the project is available at the project Web site, http:  psc.apl.washington.edu northpole  (North Pole Environmental Observatory). These data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, nsidc, ocean water chemistry measurements, arctic, ammonia, water temperature, ocean temperature, arcss095, usa, noaa, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, mass spectrometers, silicic acid, opp-9910305, oxygen, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, ocean chemistry, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, dissolved barium, north pole, nitrite, ocean, north pole environmental observatory, opp-9910335, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, ocean water conductivity measurements, nitrate, ctd probes, usa, nsf, trace elements, ocean tracers, npeo, polar, salinity, earth science, phosphate, ceos, adcc, opp-0352984, national science foundation, silicate, ocean platforms, arcss, npeo, oxygen isotopes, conductivity temperature depth probes, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Northern Norway. ABSTRACT: This dataset gives ground temperatures from 12 boreholes in the mountains of Northern Norway (Troms and Finnmark). The aim is to get knowledge on the distribution and temperature of permafrost. The dataset is part of the TSP Norway project. The boreholes are: Kistefjell (KI-B-1), depth 24.8m Lavkavagge 1 (LA-B-1), depth 14.0m Lavkavagge 2 (LA-B-2), depth 30.5m Lavkavagge 3 (LA-B-3), depth 15.8m Guolasjavri 1 (GU-B-1), depth 32.3m Guolasjavri 2 (GU-B-2), depth 10.5m Guolasjavri 3 (GU-B-3), depth 10.5m Abojavri 1 (AB-B-1), depth 6.6m Abojavri 2 (AB-B-2), depth 30.3m Iskoras 1 (IS-B-1), depth 10.7m Iskoras 2 (IS-B-2), depth 57.5m Trolltinden (TR-B-1), depth 29.4m. KEYWORD: continent, the thermal state of permafrost, earth science, cryosphere, northern europe, tsp, arctic, no, seasonally frozen ground, tsp-norway, ipy, scandinavia, permafrost, frozen ground, norway, soil temperature, europe, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Bacterial diversity of Barents sea area. ABSTRACT: This data set includes bacterial list isolated from sediment and sea water samples from Barents sea area in August 2005. Bacteria were identified by phylogenetic analyses of partial sequences of 16S rDNA. Protease, lipase, and chitinase enzyme secretion was tested for each strain.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, bacteria, archaea, ocean, earth science, ceos, amd, amd, kr, barents sea, 
TITLE: Canadian Snow Data. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Daily Snow Depth Database consists of daily ruler measurements of snow depth taken by Meteorological Service of Canada observers and archived as daily element 013 in the National Climate Data Archive. The depth data also include a substantial number of daily and weekly snow depth observations rescued from paper records as part of a CRYSYS-sponsored data rescue project. The depth data extend from the late 1800's to early 1996 in the database, although most of the data are in the period after 1950. A detailed quality control procedure was applied to flag suspicious values and fill missing data. The data were written in a direct access database which includes all the data available at the time the project was completed in 1997 (data from some stations go to the end of April 1996, but most data end in December 1995). Daily snow depth data from the National Climate Data Archive have been included on the CD-ROM for the 1996-1999 period to provide users with the capability of updating information to the end of the 1998 1999 snow season. These additional data have only been subject to MSC standard quality control checks. The Canadian Snow Water Equivalent Database contains snow water equivalent (SWE) and snow depth measurements from snow surveys taken by more than twenty agencies at weekly, biweekly or monthly frequencies. It also contains biweekly SWE estimates at Meteorological Service of Canada snow depth observing stations. The data cover the period from the mid-1950s to the mid-1990s, with a pronounced peak in the 1976-1985 decade. After 1985 there was a steep decline in the amount of data due to closure of snow courses and an erosion of contacts between MSC and other data collection agencies. At peak levels in the early 1980s, there were over 1700 snow course observations per year in the database. This number declined to around 800 per year in the early 1990s. In many cases, updates to the snow course data contained in this CD-ROM can can be readily obtained from the various provincial agencies involved in taking snow surveys. Links to these organizations are provided in the contract report for the Snow Water Equivalent Database. The CD-ROM is mainly intended as a data archive and extensive data extraction and analysis tools are not provided. The CD-ROM does contains some sample FORTRAN 77 software for data summary and extraction. All software is provided uncompiled and may have to be modified to operate on different platforms. The code was originally written for a PC-DOS system using a Microsoft FORTRAN Powerstation 4.0 compiler. Complete CD-ROM documentation including descriptions of data sources, data-modeling techniques, quality control, sample products, filenames, file locations and file formats is located in contract reports prepared by Robert Braaten for MSC. There are currently no plans to provide regular updates to this CD-ROM. This CD-ROM is dedicated to the field staff who participated in the collection of these data, and to the managers who understood the importance of sharing data. Hopefully this data compilation will do justice to these individuals and will prove to be useful in furthering understanding of snow cover in Canada.This CD-ROM was created by the Climate Processes and Earth Observation Division, Climate Research Branch, Meteorological Service of Canada (MSC) with the objective of making Canadian snow data more readily available to the user community. The CD-ROM contains the Canadian Daily Snow Depth Database and the Canadian Snow Water Equivalent Database, as well as a bonus publication "A Guide for Ground Based Measurement of the Arctic Snow Cover" (http:  ccin.uwaterloo.ca htdocs snowcover DOCUMNTS WOO.PDF) by Dr. Ming-ko Woo (November, 1997). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, canadian gridded mean snow density, canadian estimated snow water equivalent, northern hemisphere, canadian daily snow depth, snow cover, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, cryospheric, snow, ice, yukon territory, polar, nova scotia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, canadian monthly snow depth normals 1961-90, quebec, canadian monthly snow depth statistics, canadian snow cover, alberta, canadian observed snow water equivalent, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, snow water equivalent, western hemisphere, snow depth, 
TITLE: Average temperature and precipitation on arctic station of Russian Federation for the 1881-2006 period. ABSTRACT: Daily average temperature and precipitation on arctic station of Russian Federation for the 1881-2006 period.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, atmospheric temperature, temperature sensors, arctic, earth science, air temperature, anthms, antarctic hydrometric stations, precipitation, eastern europe, ipy, russia, ipy data and information service for distributed data management, international polar year, geographic region, europe, meteorological stations, ipy-dis, 
TITLE: Partial Pressure of CO2 in the Surface Sea Water in the Greenland Sea and the Barents Sea. ABSTRACT: With an automatic measurement system, the partial pressure of CO2 in the surface sea water was observed.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, carbon dioxide, ocean chemistry, arctic, earth science, ceos, japanese antarctic research expedition, ocean, oceans, jare, geographic region, arctic, jp, barents sea, 
TITLE: Younger Dryas Paleoclimate Data; GISS, NY. ABSTRACT: Younger Dryas Data - Paleoclimate Evidence of Rapid Climate Change Evidence of past climate change provides a historical perspective from which we may view our present and future climate. Records derived from ice cores, lake, bogs, ocean sediments, and glacial moraines indicate that our climate has changed considerably over the last 20,000 years. As paleoclimate techniques have improved and enhanced resolution magnifies our view, it is now obvious that the climate has changed frequently and rapidly in the past, both from warm to cold conditions and from cold to warm. The most prominent of these reversals is the Younger Dryas cooling that was first discovered in Europe, and occurred refers to the Arctic-Alpine flower, Dryas. Fossils of this plant and other tundra indicators were found sandwiched between sediments that indicated warmer, forested environments.) We may ask, does closer scrutiny of this event tell us anything that is relevant to our future? We know that describing the past patterns of change will aid us in understanding how rapidly vegetation can respond to climate change, and ultimately, what may be causing change. Studies at GISS have resulted in the discovery of a similar event in North America. This event has now been examined in three lakes and swamps in southern New England, using a combination of pollen stratigraphy, macrofossil stratigraphy, and accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) techniques. We are looking closely at the patterns of vegetational change in the rapid warming and cooling modes. In the northeastern U.S., the Younger Dryas event is regionally apparent from pollen records that indicate a change from a mixed hardwood deciduous forest (oak, ash, spruce, fir) to a boreal assemblage (spruce, fir, larch, birch, alder) as seen in pollen zones A-3 and A-4 in the first figure. Subsequently, the pollen assemblage dramatically reverses, as the boreal components disappear and, first, white pine, then oak, dominates. This pattern of pollen assemblage zones is recorded in over 20 sites in the northeastern U.S. Three questions were asked concerning this change in regional pollen stratigraphy to determine whether this change represented a climatic change similar to that found in Europe: (1) Does this palynological change represent a real change in vegetation, as opposed to a change in wind direction? (2) Was the vegetational change due to changes in climate? (3) What were the timing and rate of the vegetational change? To determine whether the palynological change represented a true vegetational change, sediment samples were screened for macrofossils (leaves, needles, seeds), which give a more precise determination of the species involved. In addition, macrofossils are important because, although pollen may blow long distances, the macrofossils indicate the actual vegetation at the site. The results of this detailed analysis indicated that the distribution of boreal trees indeed expanded during this interval, and that trees with such northerly distributions as paper birch replaced warmer species such as white pine. The winters during this time must have been severe, as increased alder and paper birch indicate disturbance. The magnitude of the change in the NY-CT-NJ region was a cooling of about 3 to 4 xC annually, and the snow depth was probably considerably more than present. Extreme winters probably left gaps in the forest that were filled by light-demanding paper birch and alder. Determination of the timing of the dramatic northeastern U.S. cooling and the subsequent warming is important for correlation with the European event, as well as for comparison with ice core and marine records, and other regional land records. The macrofossils were submitted for AMS dating to Lawrence Livermore Laboratories in California, where analysts there are able to determine the (14)C age of a single spruce needle. Results of the dating indicated that the cooling occurred between 11,000 and 10,000 years ago, which proves that the event here in southern New England is the same as that in Europe, in the Greenland ice cores, and in North Atlantic marine records. From the 5-cm detailed analysis of the sedimentation rates in the sediment cores, estimates of the regional vegetational change rates were made. The best estimates are that the climate change at the onset of the cooling took place over about 100 to 200 years. The close of the Younger Dryas cooling, typified by a vegetation change from boreal trees to a warmer white pine and oak forest, took place over an interval of between 50 and 150 years. From the macrofossil changes, it is evident that trees such as spruce, fir, and paper birch became locally extinct at the time of this rapid warming, and have remained absent from this region for the past 10,000 years. This dramatic and rapid change is comparable to that predicted for future greenhouse warming, and is comparable to the report of a very sharp transition (50 to 100 years) for this period in the Greenland ice cores. With two data points in-hand, it is now reasonable to inquire as to the global distribution of this event. At GISS, we are continuing to assess the available evidence for this reversal worldwide through continued literature compilation as well as field work. If indeed the methane and carbon dioxide decreases in the ice cores are linked in age to the Younger Dryas interval, it means that the event was global, because these gases are distributed rapidly in the atmosphere. Based upon North Atlantic evidence of cooling, in 1986 we reported the GCM results of the effects of a colder North Atlantic over land regions adjacent to the North Atlantic, as shown in the second figure, which agrees with terrestrial paleoclimatic evidence from the North Atlantic region. However, we are continuing to assess reports of the Younger Dryas in locations further afield, specifically with a research program of glacial geology and palynology at high latitudes, including Kodiak Island, Alaska. Results from Kodiak Island suggest that glacial advances and vegetational changes characterized the interval from 11,000-10,000 years BP. We are currently identifying the vegetational changes during this period, but it appears that a major regional cooling did take place roughly during this time interval, as evidenced by the decline of warmth-demanding ferns and the increase of tundra. Additional AMS dating of macrofossils should tell us whether a major change took place that is correlative with the Younger Dryas of Europe and eastern North America. We are continuing our modeling efforts from the latest data-model interaction. We have conducted additional GCM experiments using new marine data that indicate a 2 xC cooling in North Pacific sea surface temperature during the Younger Dryas. The resulting annual air temperature difference between today and this experiment is quite large throughout the Northern Hemisphere, including the air temperature over North America and Europe. This result is significant because it points to the tremendous impact of the large area of the North Pacific Ocean on northern hemispheric climate when the temperature is lowered, as less moisture in the air results in less of a greenhouse warming effect. We continue to delve into the questions of the distribution, timing, magnitude, and vegetational expression of this rapid and major climate event of the past. By analyzing its effects regionally and globally, we will be in a better position to define the cause of such rapid climate changes, and our future. for more information, see: http:  www.giss.nasa.gov research paleo  and http:  pubs.giss.nasa.gov authors dpeteet.html. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean sediments, atmospheric temperature, paleovegetation, ice, pollen stratigraphy, north america, isotopes, alaska, ice age, land records, models, macrofossils, biosphere, lake sediments, glaciation, snow, paleo start date, climatology, bog sediments, sediments, glacial moraines, microfossils, continent, younger dryas, kodiak island, pollen, ams, fossil pollen, cenozoic, vegetation, atmospheric sciences, air temperature, paleoclimate, palynology, united states of america, paleontology, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, paleo stop date, bogs, quaternary, ice cores, paleosols, boreal, earth science, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, giss, plant sciences, 
TITLE: Measurement of the characteristics of the intensity and polaristion of skylight at two different sites in Antarctica, differeing in albedo. ABSTRACT: The enhancement of UVB radiation falling onto the different land surfaces was investigated. Previous measurements (in the 1990 season) found low maximum polarisation of sky light and strong low azimuth back scattered light as two characteristic features of the Antarctic skies. Analyses of these features suggested that this occurs by multiple reflections from the snow-ice surfaces surrounding the Tent Island measuring site (and most of Antarctica). To test the theory that the distinctive features of skylight over ice (and snow) is due to the high albedo environment, two sites at essentially the same latitude and the same unpolluted air were measured to determine if the land surface was what was affecting the results. Enhanced UVB radiation was measured, and hence the properties of Antarctic skies, at two sites, one near Tent Island and the other at Lake Vanda, the first site being surrounded by sea ice, while the second site was surrounded over a substantial distance by bare rock. Using a sky monitor and polarisation spectrometer, the polarisation and sky light distribution was measured at both sites.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, wright valley, earth science, ceos, lake vanda, transmittance, antarctica, ultraviolet radiation, amd, nz, tent island, amd, ground stations, mcmurdo sound, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Sea-Floor Sediment Heavy Metals Datasets. ABSTRACT: This is a database of references to surface-sediment heavy metal concentration data in the Bering and Chukchi Seas. It supports Pacific walrus research at the Alaska Science Center - Biological Science Office. It indexes raw data, reports, statistical reviews, and maps. [Summary provided by the USGS.]. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, natural resources, heavy metals, arctic, metals, gulf of alaska, continental margins, united states of america, north america, alaska, seafloor topography, human dimensions, trenches, marine sediments, north pacific ocean, sediment composition, bering sea, polar, abyssal hills, plains, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, seamounts, bathymetry, seafloor topography, environment, ocean, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, sediments, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Meteorological, Radiation, Soil, and Snow Data from Alaska Sites, 1998-2002. ABSTRACT: This data set contains meteorological, radiation, soil, and snow data from several sites in three regions in Alaska: Ivotuk, Kougarok and Council. The goal of the project is to improve the understanding of the role that soil moisture and surface temperature play in affecting the surface energy balance, sub-surface thermal dynamics, and vegetation distribution. Measurements were taken as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (LAII-ATLAS) program. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9818066. Please refer to the ATLAS Ivotuk, Kougarok, and Council web site (http:  www.uaf.edu water projects atlas ivotuk ivotuk.html) for a complete description of this project and the resulting data. Data are available by FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, usa, noaa, thermal dynamics, arctic system science, precipitation, temperature loggers, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, net radiation, humidity, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, rain, wind speed, arctic system science data coordination center, wind direction, office of polar programs, national science foundation, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, kougarok, vegetation distribution, longwave radiation, council, ivotuk, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, arcss, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, snow depth, nsf, continent, shortwave radiation, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, usa, nsf, united states of america, arcss901, probes, soils, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, ggd901, adcc, opp9818066, net radiometers, surface energy balance, 
TITLE: MMS Low Altitude Survey for Seabirds, Southern California Bight. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Marine Mammal and Seabird Surveys Of The Southern California Bight Studies: -- So. Calif. Bight Low Aerial [Birds] Study Code: SB Contract Number: AA550-CT7-36 Principal Investigator(s) Affiliation: K. S. Norris and B. J. Le Boeuf, University of California, Santa Cruz, and G. L. Hunt, University of California, Irvine. PURPOSE: OBJECTIVES: Objectives of the study were to characterize the marine mammal and seabird fauna of the Southern California Bight, estimate abundance of species, describe the distribution, determine the timing and routes of migrations and movements, and document seasonal changes in numbers or patterns of habitat-use. In addition, studies were conducted to determine the size and status of breeding colonies of seabirds and pinnipeds, their productivity, and trends in growth. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: May 1975 through March 1978 STUDY AREA: The Southern California Bight, from Point Conception to the U.S.-Mexico boundary and offshore to the 2,000 m isobath. METHODOLOGY: Aerial and ship surveys were conducted along pre-established transects designed to systematically sample marine mammal and seabird abundance in all waters of the study area. Aerial surveys were conducted at two altitudes (200 ft and about 750-1,000 ft ASL) alternating at 2-3 week intervals. Seabirds and pinnipeds were recorded only on the low-altitude surveys which predominantly sampled along eight lines of latitude, separated by 25 nm, and connecting lines of longitude. High-altitude surveys sampled cetacean abundance along 15 Loran lines oriented northeast-southwest and separated by 12-15 nm. On low-altitude surveys, seabirds were counted only within a 50 m corridor on the shaded side of the aircraft. Marine mammals were counted in an unbounded corridor on one side of the aircraft on low-altitude surveys and both sides of the aircraft on high-altitude surveys. A clinometer or marks on the wing-strut were used to estimate the declination, and the measurement or estimate later used to calculate probability density functions of frequency with right-angle distance. Ships were used for surveys of inshore waters along standard (i.e., predetermined and replicate) transects and for search, catch, and tagging tracking of small cetaceans. The standard ship transect cruises sampled abundance of seabirds and marine mammals over banks, basins, and ridges in waters inshore of the Patton Escarpment (the shelf break). Seabirds and marine mammals were counted on both sides of the cruise track and distance estimated or measured with a range-finder. Catch cruises attempted to find and remain with schools of common dolphin and other small cetaceans; therefore, data on sightings from these cruises cannot be used as samples of animal abundance. The Southern California Bight Study also included ground and aerial censuses of pinniped and seabird colonies, and special studies of productivity, mortality rates, and foraging range. DATABASES PRODUCED: Databases produced include 1) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 24 *low-altitude aerial surveys, 2) sightings of cetaceans on 35 high-altitude aerial surveys, 3) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 29 ship transect surveys, and 4) sightings of cetaceans on 34 catch cruises. Included in this database are the following: High Altitude Mammal Observations: 75,489 km of effort, 695 sightings of 68,557 individual animals Low Altitude Mammal Observations: 37,843 km of effort, 1,320 sightings of 15,070 individual animals Low Altitude Bird Observations: 35,445 km of effort, 7,950 sightings of 63,359 individual animals Ship Observations: 17,903 km of effort, 23,519 sightings of 181,287 individual animals CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, arctic ocean, great blue heron, obis, seamap, biological classification, herons, rhinoceros auklet, salteador pomarino, troit, aigles, sabine's gulls, arctic, cormorants, colimbo menor, bonaparte's gull, mouette de bonaparte, red-billed tropicbird, cheurs, gaviota occidental, sabine's gull, gant, waders, gulls, auks and allies, anite cul-blanc, north pacific ocean, brown pelican, arctic tern, western gull, ross' gulls, gaviota ploma, cormorans, sternes, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, ibises, ibis, petrels, labbes, terns, guillemots, mew gull, loons, jaegers, penguins, tropicbirds, glaucous-winged gull, continent, zambullidor orejudo, land de californie, perviers, albatrosses, petrels and allies, gaviota plateada, birds, black storm-petrel, grebes, storm petrels, flamants, front blanc, fulmars, shearwaters, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, colimbo mayor, pingouins, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, puffin fuligineux, gaviota cana, polar, n de brandt, kittiwakes, labbe pomarin, cou noir, sito, pacific ocean, puffins, rtico, o negro, rabijunco pico rojo, o de leach, california gull, herons, egrets and allies, common loon, o cenizo, sooty shearwater, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, lida, alcuela oscura, gaviota pico anillado, north america, labbe parasite, cassin's auklet, falaropo pico grueso, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, california, gaviota californiana, red-throated loon, pomarine jaeger, gulls, royal tern, faucons, common murre, tufted puffin, auks, triers, red phalarope, ocean, guillemot marmette, albatros, storks, plongeon catmarin, geographic region, negreta nuca blanca, n real, pardela gris, scoters, leach's storm-petrel, mouettes, brandt's cormorant, pardela pata rosada, northern fulmar, surf scoter, falaropo cuello rojo, pelagic cormorant, typical terns, obis-seamap, ron, sterne arctique, oceanodroma homochroa, united states of america, fork-tailed storm-petrel, garza morena, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, phalacrocorax olivaceus, gaviota de bonaparte, plongeon huard, achichilique pico amarillo, licans, ring-billed gull, ivory gulls, pelicans and allies, aircraft, earth science, red-necked phalarope, pardela de buller, huarts, black-legged kittiwake, tubinares, heermann's gull, trels, ibises, spoonbills, cano pardo, lands, rons, gaviota ala glauca, herring gull, eared grebe, gico, western grebe, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Daily Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Variations in Circumpolar Frozen Ground Conditions and Modeled Future Conditions. ABSTRACT: This data set contains permafrost distribution maps, active-layer thickness maps, and hazard-potential maps constructed using results from the 'frost index' permafrost model (Nelson and Outcalt, 1987) driven by modern climatic data and scenarios of climate change derived from three transient general circulation models (Greco et al., 1994). The permafrost maps show the distribution of permafrost in the Northern Hemisphere under modern climatic conditions and General Circulation Model (GCM) projections for 2050; the active-layer thickness maps show relative changes in the depth of seasonal thawing projected for 2050; and the hazard-potential maps are used as indices to evaluate potential environmental hazards associated with thaw settlement and thermokarst.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, active layer, future model scenarios, arctic, arcss050, hazard index, usa, noaa, arctic system science, 2050, gcm, usa, nsf, opp9612647, frost, active-layer thickness, soil temperature, circumpolar, visual observations, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, opp-9612647, ground-based observations, polar, department of geography, models, maps, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, global circulation models, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, predictions, hazard potential, general circulation models, university of delaware, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Atlantic Reference Centre Museum of Canadian Atlantic Organisms - Invertebrates and Fishes Data(OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: This is the OBIS version of the Atlantic Reference Centre museum database for Canadian Atlantic marine organisms. Specimens represent invertebrates from sponges to tunicates, and fishes. The ichthyoplankton collection is the most extensive, with complete holdings from many scientific broad-scale surveys. Geographic coverage is the Arctic to Cape Cod and the coast to the slope water. Temporally, most specimens were collected from the 1960s to the present. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, sponges, epipelagic fish, jellyfishes, crustaceans, fish data, mid-latitude, arthropods, echinoderms, ecological dynamics, arctic, demersal habitat, obis, northern hemisphere, north america, massachusetts, bottom fish, groundfish, life stage, larval fish, segmented worms (annelids), aquatic ecosystems, species composition, benthic epifauna, benthic infauna, gulf of maine, sea anemones, coml, pelagic habitat, grand banks, nova scotia, benthic animals, bay of fundy, biosphere, tunicates, animals, vertebrates, anthozoans, hexacorals, benthic habitat, ocean, canada, new brunswick, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, fish species composition, continent, newfoundland and labrador, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, finfish, abundance, pelagic fish, north atlantic ocean, distribution, indigenous, native species, fish species abundance, united states of america, plankton, coastal habitat, flatworms, flukes, tapeworms, polar, mesopelagic fish abundance and biomass, census of marine life, zooplankton, earth science, length, ocean biogeographic information system, usa, nasa, quebec, roundworms, coastal processes, macroinvertebrates, prince edward island, fish, species, population interactions, davis straight, ichthyoplankton, atlantic ocean, obis, ca, estuarine habitat, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: Aerial Surveys of Marine Birds and Mammals in Support of Oil Spill Response and Injury Assessment. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Aerial Surveys of Marine Birds And Mammals In Support Of Oil Spill Response And Injury Assessment Studies: -- OSPR Aerial Surveys [Birds and Mammals] Study Code: OS Contract Number: FG7407-OS with California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG), Office of Spill Prevention and Response (OSPR); and 14-35-0001-30758 (Task 13293) with the Coastal Marine Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara. PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR(S) AFFILIATION: Michael L. Bonnell, Ph.D. Institute of Marine Sciences, University of California, Santa Cruz PURPOSE: OBJECTIVES: Develop and maintain a capability to provide aerial surveys of marine bird and mammal distribution and abundance for oil spill response and post-spill injury assessment. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: June 1994 through October 1998 STUDY AREA: Coastal and inland marine waters of California. METHODOLOGY: Aerial surveys were conducted in a variety of California locales with experienced observers and trainees. The aircraft used was a Partenavia PN68 Observer provided by the Department of Air Services, CDFG, flown at an altitude of 200' (60m) above ground level and at a typical air speed of 90 kts. Two observers (at least one experienced) occupied middle seats and searched a corridor of 50m on each side of the aircraft. Width was defined by clinometer and simple trigonometric functions. Species, numbers, behavior and other information was described on hand-held tape recorders for later transcription and computer entry. The co-pilot position was occupied by a navigator computer operator. This individual recorded number of observers on-watch, transect status (i.e., on-effort, off-effort, and commutes), as well as sea state, weather and other observation conditions. Date, time, and position of the aircraft were recorded directly into the data-logging computer with time, latitude and longitude provided by a Global Positioning System (GPS). DATABASES PRODUCED: A single database was produced including date, time, latitude longitude, behavior, observation conditions, and other information for each sighting of marine birds, mammals, and turtles. As stated above, some surveys were solely for the purpose of drills and training, some for systematic data collection, and others for actual oil spill response. In this study, 74 one-day surveys were flown through 1997. Through the end of 1997, a total of 670 hours were flown and, exclusive of commutes, mapped bird and mammal distribution and abundance along 31,271 km (16,886 nmi) of transects. (data from several surveys from 1998 are yet fully analyzed and therefore not included on this CD-ROM.) Credit for this study is shared with OSPR by the Minerals Management Service (MMS), Pacific OCS Region, that provided most observers for surveys flown in Santa Barbara Channel and the Santa Maria Basin; MMS personnel also carried out tape-transcriptions and computer entry for surveys in southern California waters (this portion of the OSPR surveys was conducted under matching-funds between OSPR and the Coastal Marine Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara). CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, arctic ocean, geese, herons, rhinoceros auklet, troit, steller's sea lion, cormorants, red-breasted merganser, negreta ala blanca, colimbo menor, steller sealion, stica, mouette de bonaparte, bufflehead, mallard, cheurs, gaviota occidental, gant, marsouins, requin bleu, oiseaux, american wigeon, brown pelican, earless seals, arctic tern, ross' gulls, courlis corlieu, gaviota ploma, cormorans, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, ibis, labbes, mew gull, loons, jaegers, penguins, skates, dolphins, oies, candelero americano, humpback whale, continent, blue shark, northern pintail, perviers, picopando canelo, gaviota plateada, common tern, black storm-petrel, ring-necked duck, storm petrels, tinglar, ducks, geese, swans, front blanc, fulmars, goldeneyes, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, colimbo mayor, pingouins, puffin fuligineux, gaviota cana, sterne de forster, labbe pomarin, ballena menor, pacific ocean, grand harle, puffins, pez luna, n pescador, casseaux, o negro, hawaiian stilt, ballena jorobada, oldsquaw, northern right-whale dolphin, herons, egrets and allies, common loon, common merganser, o cenizo, short-beaked common dolphin, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, cygnes, long-tailed jaeger, pardela mexicana, dos blanc, northern elephant seal, harbor porpoise, alcuela oscura, gaviota pico anillado, labbe parasite, cassin's auklet, canards, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, true seals, california, gaviota californiana, cetaceans, steller sea lion, whales, cheur, n elegante, northern sea lion, dolphin, pomarine jaeger, whimbrel, canard pilet, gulls, n azul, faucons, harbor seal, common murre, tufted puffin, auks, elegant tern, petit rorqual, ocean, dolphinfish, zambullidor cornudo, storks, plongeon catmarin, negreta nuca blanca, short-beaked saddleback dolphin, turtles, toothed whales, canada goose, pardela pata rosada, n chato, pelagic cormorant, marsouin commun, typical terns, sterne arctique, oceanodroma homochroa, common dolphin, fork-tailed storm-petrel, garza morena, northern right whale dolphin, gaviota de bonaparte, achichilique pico amarillo, california sealion, ring-billed gull, rorqual bleu, marine mammals, red-necked phalarope, pardela de buller, huarts, blue whale, ocean sunfish, tubinares, dorado, white-winged scoter, heermann's gull, pato monja, rons, rock dove, herring gull, collier, gico, western grebe, salteador cola larga, bosse, canvasback, great blue heron, obis, seamap, biological classification, pigeon biset, salteador pomarino, aigles, ganso canadiense, longue queue, minke whale, sabine's gulls, true's porpoise, arctic, n de forster, sharks, willet, bonaparte's gull, torpedoes, sabine's gull, aigrette neigeuse, marbled murrelet, waders, gulls, auks and allies, north pacific ocean, california sea lion, north pacific bottle-nosed whale, western gull, sternes, garza blanca, ibises, petrels, bernache du canada, tortue luth, mammals, terns, cano blanco, forster's tern, guillemots, glaucous-winged gull, petit garrot, saddle-backed dolphin, sandpipers, zambullidor orejudo, land de californie, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, be esclavon, grebes, macreuse brune, leatherback, flamants, shearwaters, pato tepalcate, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, zarapito trinador, rique, redhead, polar, n de brandt, common goldeneye, kittiwakes, cou noir, sito, n costado blanco, ballena azul, dauphins, nutria marina, ducks, porpoises, rtico, carnivores, risso's dolphin, california gull, diving ducks, american avocet, rismature rousse, baird's beaked whale, leatherback sea turtle, res marins, sooty shearwater, n caspia, oeil d'or, bat ray, black-necked stilt, grande aigrette, sterne caspienne, canard colvert, swans, ruddy duck, north america, falaropo pico grueso, bitterns, pato cola larga, red-throated loon, pacific white-sided dolphin, mergo mayor, avoceta americana, baleen whales, pato cabeza roja, phoque commun, egrets, leatherback turtle, american white pelican, triers, marsopa de dall, red phalarope, pato de collar, te rouge, guillemot marmette, sea otter, casseau sanderling, albatros, snowy egret, playero blanco, geographic region, pato coacoxtle, rays, caspian tern, pardela gris, scoters, mouettes, northern sea elephant, brandt's cormorant, northern fulmar, reptiles, surf scoter, golfinho, falaropo cuello rojo, sanderling, common porpoise, horned puffin, pato pico anillado, sterne pierregarin, obis-seamap, ron, seals, sea lions, walruses, united states of america, baleia, otters, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, dall's porpoise, great egret, phalacrocorax olivaceus, marbled godwit, plongeon huard, licans, grampus, garceta pie-dorado, ivory gulls, pelicans and allies, aircraft, earth science, lobo-marino californiano, osprey, horned grebe, baleines, black-legged kittiwake, dabbling ducks, northern minke whale, trels, ibises, spoonbills, cano pardo, harelde kakawi, lands, pato golondrino, short-beaked saddle-backed dolphin, gaviota ala glauca, eared grebe, 
TITLE: Physical-Geographical Regions Classifications. ABSTRACT: When the Ministers of the Arctic countries adapted the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy (AEPS) in 1991, they signalled out habitat conservation as an area for special attention. Consequently when the International Working Group for the Conservation of Arctic Flora and Fauna (CAFF) met at its inaugural meeting in 1992, it included Arctic habitat conservation as a priority in its Work Plan. Norway, on behalf of the eight Arctic countries, accepted the task of examining the current status of habitat protection within the Arctic countries as the first phase of CAFF's long-term strategy on habitat. Physical-geographical regions as compiled for the Conservation of Arctic Flora and Fauna (CAFF) project. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of the Nordic countries Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: poly Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation and was digitised by GRID-Arendal. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 2 Vector Name: Ecozones of Canada and Alaska Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing the ecozones of Canada, created for the CAFF report 1993 and used in the CAFF report 1994. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 3 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Greenland Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation and was digitised by GRID-Arendal. Created in 1993 for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 4 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Svalbard Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation and was digitised by GRID-Arendal. Created in 1993 for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 5 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Svalbard, clipped to coast Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation and was digitised by GRID-Arendal. Created in 1993 for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 6 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Russia Source Map Name: Former USSR maps Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation. Digitised in 1993 by Kjell Olsson for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 7 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Russia (raw data, 1994) Source Map Name: Former USSR maps Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation. Digitised in 1994 by Bruce Napier for the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 8 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Russia clipped by CAFF line Source Map Name: Former USSR maps Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation. Digitised in 1994 by Bruce Napier for the 1994 CAFF report. Clipped by the CAFF Arctic line. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 9 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of physical-geographical regions of Russia Source Map Name: Former USSR maps Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: This map is a composite of various landscape or ecological based classifications of the Arctic. Several classes are combined in the presentation. Used for the 1994 CAFF report. Clipped by the CAFF Arctic line.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecology, conservation, unep, grid, alpine, tundra, earth science, temperate ecosystems and cold zone ecosystems, ceos, un, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, 
TITLE: Susceptibility of arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus) to infectious hematopoietic necrosis virsus (IHNV) and infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV). ABSTRACT: Infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) and infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV) are important viral fish pathogens that can cause high levels of mortality in populations of intensively cultured fish. These viruses can infect various life stages of salmonid and, in the case of IPNV, nonsalmonid fishes, and fish that survive primary infection can be lifelong virus carriers. Both IHNV and IPNV can be readily transmitted between generations and among contemporary generations. Empirical observations and experimental evidence indicate that species susceptibility is greatest in brook trout, followed respectively by rainbow trout, brown trout, lake trout, and Atlantic salmon. Information was obtained from "http:  www.lsc.usgs.gov SPN.asp?StudyPlanNum=01068-08" Information about other Leetown Science Center research projects is available at "http:  www.lsc.usgs.gov rescurrent.asp". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, viruses, susceptibility, arctic, earth science, ceos, animals, vertebrates, infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (ipnv), arctic char, ocean, fish, infectious hematopoietic necrosis virsus (ihnv), salvelinus alpinus, oceans, fisheries, geographic region, aquatic sciences, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Synthetic Aperture Radar (restricted). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The CLASS inventory of Synthetic Aperture Radar data includes imagery of global and repetitive observations of the environment. Imagery was obtained by the ERS-2 and RADARSAT-1 satellites, which were flown in sun-synchronous, polar orbits. Imaging was acquired irrespective of weather conditions; the SAR radar sensor is a microwave instrument which sends pulsed signals to the Earth and processes the received reflected pulses. Data were processed at one of four sites: Fairbanks, USA; Gatineau, Canada; Tromso, Norway; or West Freugh, UK. Data in a variety of Beam Mode Positions and product types (geo-coded or geo-referenced) on various dates. PURPOSE: Data generated by the ERS-1 mission contributes to:* Improved understanding of ocean-atmosphere interactions. * Advances in knowledge of ocean circulation and energy transfer mechanisms. * Improved estimates of the mass balance of the Arctic & Antarctic ice sheets. * Better monitoring of dynamic coastal processes. * Improved pollution monitoring. * Improved detection and management of land use changes. Data generated by Radarsat - 1 mission contributes to:* Mapping all of the Antarctic ice sheet. * Monitoring sea-ice cover for climate research and navigation purposes. * Monitoring sea-ice cover for climate research and navigation purposes. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: CLASS allows access to RADARSAT data for authorized U.S. Government users only. It permits the users to search the CLASS inventory of RADARSAT data based on data set type as well as geographic locations and acquisition date and time. The user may then order selected data sets from the inventory for electronic delivery CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition Electronic download (FTP) of the data is free. There is a fee for copies of data on physical media. Optical disks are $25.00 per unit and magnetic tape is $100 per unit. Price does not include additional service and handling costs.. KEYWORD: polar, sar, arctic, earth science, european remote sensing satellite-1, ceos, global, european remote sensing satellite-2, usa, noaa, ers-1, radar imagery, ers-2, synthetic aperture radar, radar, earth science information partners program, spectral, engineering, microwave imagery, esip, radarsat-1, geographic region, microwave, 
TITLE: General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) Digital Atlas. ABSTRACT: The General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) is now available as the GEBCO Digital Atlas (GDA) on CD-ROM. It is published by the British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC) on behalf of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO and the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO). The GDA contains a global one minute interval grid and a global set of digital bathymetric contours and coastlines of the world's oceans. The GDA is available from BODC on CDROM with a software interface and full documentation for the data sets. The price of the atlas is 230 pounds sterling, inclusive of postage and packing. A special price of 99 pounds sterling is available to educational and academic research establishments and national Hydrographic Offices. VAT (currently 17.5%) is payable on orders from within the European Community. For more information see "http:  www.bodc.ac.uk projects international gebco gebco_digital_atlas " The contents of the GDA are as follows: * Bathymetric contours, coastlines and trackline control from the October 2002 version of the GEBCO Digital Atlas. It is based primarily on the digitised GEBCO Fifth Edition chart series enhanced by completely new bathymetric compilations for the Arctic and Indian Oceans as well as significant updates for areas of the North Atlantic, the Weddell Sea and the area around New Zealand. * The GEBCO One Minute Grid, a global one minute interval bathymetric grid, based primarily on the bathymetric contours of the October 2002 version of the GDA. It also incorporates land elevations derived from the Global Land One-km Base Elevation (GLOBE) project data set. * A five minute version of the GEBCO One Minute Grid. The data are stored in binary format and are not accessible via the GDA Software Interface. A stand alone version of the data set is stored for direct access by the user. * A set of user guides to the GDA and its data sets. * Bathymetric contours and coastlines from the First Edition of the International Bathymetric Chart of the Mediterranean (IBCM). * A set of digital global coastlines from the World Vector Shoreline, at a range of scales from 1:43 million to 1:250000 or better for coastlines north of 60S. * The Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) Coastline of Antarctica (Version 3.0) at a range of scales from 1:10 million to 1:250000 (replacing the World Vector Shoreline south of 60S). * Trackline inventory of the digital echo-sounding data held at the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) Data Center for Digital Bathymetry as of June 2002. * A digital set of geographically referenced feature names including the International Hydrographic Organization Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IHO IOC) Gazetteer of Geographic Names of Undersea Features. * A digital version of the Third Edition of the Echo-Sounding Correction Tables. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, eastern pacific ocean, shorelines, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, western pacific ocean, bathymetric contours, mediterranean sea, global ocean, digital coastlines, weddell sea, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, sounders, contours, bathymetry, seafloor topography, coastal processes, water depth, ocean, digital bathymetric contours, acoustic sounders, south pacific ocean, oceans, amd, amd, uk, atlantic ocean, central pacific ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MLS Aura L2 Nitric Acid (HNO3) Mixing Ratio V002 ML2HNO3 at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: ML2HNO3 is the EOS Aura Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) standard product for nitric acid derived from radiances measured by the 240 GHz radiometer at and below 10 hPa, and from the 190 GHz radiometer above 10 hPa. The current ML2HNO3 product is version 2.2. Data coverage is complete from March 1, 2007 to current. Spatial coverage is near-global (-82 to +82 latitude), with each profile spaced 1.5 or ~165 km along the orbit track (roughly 15 orbits per day). The recommended useful vertical range is from 215 to 3.2 hPa, and the vertical resolution is between about 3 and 5 km. Users of the ML2HNO3 data product should read section 3.10 of the EOS MLS Level 2 Version 2.2 Quality Document for more information (http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov data v2-2_data_quality_document.pdf). Users are encouraged to register with the MLS science team at http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov cgi-bin registration.pl to obtain updates and information about this data product. The ML2HNO3 data are stored in the version 5 EOS Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS5), which is based on the version 5 Hierarchical Data Format, or HDF5. Each file contains two swath objects (one with profile data, the other with column data), each with a set of data and geolocation fields, swath attributes, and metadata. The data fields include the geophysical parameter values and precision (standard deviation), convergence values, data quality, and a status flag. The geolocation fields include a time stamp in TAI-93 format (seconds since January 1, 1993), geodetic latitude and longitude, and pressure level values, as well as local solar time, solar zenith angle, line of sight angle, and orbit geodetic angle. There is one file per day, and the average file size is about 1.0 Mbytes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, nitrogen compounds, arctic, earth science, ceos, echo, global, microwave limb sounder, usa, nasa, eosdis, aura, nitric acid, atmospheric chemistry, earth science information partners program, earth observing system data information system, mls, hno3, esip, geographic region, earth observing system (eos), aura, stratosphere, 
TITLE: Canadian Landscapes - Photos and Images Collection. ABSTRACT: The collection features more than 1,000 images representing various landscapes and landforms of Canada. Each image comes with brief geological explanations to provide insight on how the features developed. The photos were taken by scientists of the Geological Survey of Canada in the past 30 years. Very few of these images have been published and rarely in colour.This collection of photos of Canadian Landscapes and landforms is presented as a public service to illustrate the great geological and geomorphological diversity in Canada. z39.50s:  rgsc1.rgsc.nrcan.gc.ca:9999 Landscapes_fr. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, terrain elevation, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, surface roughness, northern hemisphere, topographic effects, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, yukon territory, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, landscape patterns, quebec, contours, alberta, landforms, canada, cgdi, photographs, canada, prince edward island, topographical relief, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, landscape, 
TITLE: PIROP Northwest Atlantic. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The PIROP (Programme Intgr de recherches sur les oiseaux plagiques) data set, Atlantic subset, consists of geo-referenced vessel-based surveys to monitor pelagic seabirds. Most surveys were carried out by R.G. B. Brown from 'vessels of opportunity' supplied by the Bedford Institute for Oceanography (BIO) in Dartmouth Halifax, but many other platforms and observers were used, too. During these surveys observations other than seabirds were also recorded, e.g. Waterfowl, Waterbirds, Songbirds, Raptors, Owls, Sea Mammals, and other sightings of interest (weather, oceanography, vessel activities, bird behaviour, etc.). The data collection period covers all seasons of 1966-1992, with most surveys being conducted between (late) summers of 1975-1987. The survey protocol originally consisted of unlimited width 10min transects, but was changed appr. 1984 towards a Tasker et al. (1984) type of survey (fixed-width strip transect). However, data and results from the PIROP database need to be interpreted as relative, and not absolute, abundance. PURPOSE: The PIROP data were collected for Canadian seabird monitoring purposes, focusing on the Canadian Atlantic, but also on other areas relevant to Canadian birds such as waters off Peru, off West Africa and off Europe. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: Puffinus creatopus (Pink-footed Shearwater; ITIS: 174547) observed on 1982-08-16 12:00:00 at 53.9000:-55.5000 (id=151664) changed to Procellariidae (Shearwaters; ITIS: 174532) as P. creatopus does not occur in the Atlantic. The PIROP data set is a large pool of seabird data, which got extended and modified over the years, e.g. due to changes of objectives and staff. Appr. in 1998 the data were merged by CWS-Dartmouth office with the Manomet Bird Observatory Seabird database, which cover mostly the Gulf of Maine region. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL DATA ORGANIZATION INFORMATION Indirect Spatial Reference: Ship logs, stored at Bedford Institute for Oceanography Direct Spatial Reference: Point SDTS Point and Vector Object Type: Entity point Point and Vector Object Count: 10 minute transects: 73,628; Sightings: 223,942 SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224 NATIVE: IBM PC and MacIntosh, specifically designed PIROP database software and entry mask (Huettmann and Lock 1997); it is also possible to use PIROP data with FoxPro or dbASE.. KEYWORD: albatrosses, herons, greater white-fronted goose, falconiforms, cormorants, red-breasted merganser, dovekie, brant, bufflehead, mallard, franklin's gull, polar bears, stilts, short-snouted spinner dolphin, ugruk, gulf of maine, brown pelican, earless seals, arctic tern, songbird surveys, iceland gull, false killer whale, sooty tern, walruses, bottlenose whales, animals, vertebrates, murres, fin whale, atlantic puffin, mew gull, loons, razorbill, dolphins, harp seal, dunlin, bottlenose dolphin, humpback whale, continent, spotted sandpiper, common tern, pelicans, storm petrels, atlantic gray seal, gray seals, small sperm whales, ducks, geese, swans, fulmars, bottlenose dolphins, index of relative abundance, bearded seal, seabird monitoring, atlantic spotted dolphin, hooded merganser, puffins, white-rumped sandpiper, flamingos, bowhead whales, lesser black-backed gull, black scoter, oldsquaw, sei whale, common loon, common merganser, baltic gray seal, short-beaked common dolphin, cory's shearwater, killer whales, long-finned pilot whale, long-tailed jaeger, black-headed gull, northern bottle-nosed whale, striped dolphins, harbor porpoise, long-snouted spinner dolphin, black right whale, wilson's phalarope, common snipe, greater yellowlegs, laughing gull, thayer's gull, greater scaup, parasitic jaeger, true seals, cetaceans, hair seals, whales, falcons, pygmy sperm whales, false killer whales, pomarine jaeger, gulls, bears, bay of fundy, harbor seal, common murre, bottlenosed dolphin, roseate tern, auks, spotted dolphins, beaked whales, snow goose, canada, ocean, harbor porpoises, north atlantic bottle-nosed whale, greater shearwater, storks, hooded seals, bearded seals, short-beaked saddleback dolphin, toothed whales, canada goose, seabird, ringed seal, great cormorant, songbird, little gull, common dolphin, white-beaked dolphin, avocets, least sandpiper, semipalmated plover, spinner dolphin, wilson's storm-petrel, american black duck, ring-billed gull, gray seal, right whales, marine mammals, red-necked phalarope, magnificent frigatebird, shore birds, tube-nosed swimmers, blue whale, sea mammal, finback whale, pectoral sandpiper, red-necked grebe, walrus, white-winged scoter, herring gull, atlantic ocean, plovers, diurnal birds of prey, seabird ecology, obis, seamap, biological classification, minke whale, black tern, south polar skua, bonaparte's gull, eagles, great black-backed gull, marine dolphins, bladdernose seal, animals, waders, gulls, auks and allies, squareflipper, pilot whales, western gull, sperm whale, ibises, petrels, ships, mammals, terns, thick-billed murre, common porpoises, forster's tern, guillemots, lesser yellowlegs, northern bottlenose whale, saddle-backed dolphin, sandpipers, ivory gull, white-sided dolphins, north atlantic ocean, common eider, sea mammal surveys, birds, grebes, atlantic white-sided dolphin, shearwaters, northern right whale, clymene dolphin, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, rorquals, hawks, oystercatchers, double-crested cormorant, manx shearwater, seabird surveys, porpoises, carnivores, risso's dolphin, california gull, spinner dolphins, baird's sandpiper, sooty shearwater, chordates, harbor seals, alcids, white-beaked dolphins, great skua, hudsonian godwit, north america, hooded seal, purple sandpiper, red-throated loon, baleen whales, pantropical spotted dolphin, pygmy sperm whale, sperm whales, vertebrates, hudson bay, orca, caspian tern, leach's storm-petrel, totipalmate swimmers, northern fulmar, killer whale, sanderling, georges bank, common porpoise, common dolphins, horsehead, semipalmated sandpiper, green-winged teal, obis-seamap, northern gannet, seals, sea lions, walruses, polar bear, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, black guillemot, grampus, humpback whales, earth science, osprey, horned grebe, slaty-backed gull, glaucous gull, atlantic seal, black-legged kittiwake, northern minke whale, bottle-nosed whales, ibises, spoonbills, sandwich tern, short-beaked saddle-backed dolphin, finback whales, steller's eider, 
TITLE: Vostok Antarctic Ice Core Data for 420,000 years, from WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: The Vostok Ice Core Data is one of the primary Antarctic Paleoclimate Datasets. It covers the time from the present back to 422,000 years before the present. It is available from the World Data Center - Paleoclimatology). The Vostok Ice Core Data consists of: Methane: Contains depth, age, and methane (CH4) concentration from the Barnola et al. (1991) model and from Chappellaz et al. (1990). Carbon Dioxide: Contains depth, age, carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration from Barnola et al., 1987, Chappellaz et al, 1990. Dust Flux: Contains depth, dust volume concentration (in 10-9cm3 of dust per g of snow). Insoluble microparticles published in Nature paper (Petit et al., 1990) Dust Concentrations: Contains dust volume concentration as published by Petit et al. (1990) and Jouzel et al. (1993). Contains number of dust particles larger than 0.8 m per g of ice and deuterium measurements. Stable isotopes and temperature reconstructions: Contains stable isotopes of hydrogen (deuterium), oxygen, nitrogen and temperature reconstructions from Jouzel et al. (1987, 1993, and 1996). Sodium Concentrations: Contains sodium ion concentrations from Legrand et al.(1988),down to 2080 m. Oxygen Isotope: d18o oxygen data published in Sowers et al.(1993) and Jouzel et al.(1993). Nitrous Oxide (N2O): Trapped gas bubbles record the history of atmospheric N2O concentrations plus d15N and18O in Sowers (2001). In-situ 14C data: 14C concentrations in Vostok ice in Lal et al. (2001) Timescales: Different timescales used for interpretation of Vostok ice core records reported in ky BP. See: For more details on the data in each file see: http:  www.ncdc.noaa.gov paleo icecore antarctica vostok vostok.html NOTE: PLEASE CITE ORIGINAL REFERENCES WHEN USING THIS DATA!. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice core air bubbles, past global changes, igbp, arctic, deuterium concentrations, ice, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, noaa, pages, isotopes, ground stations, dust, climate change, international geosphere-biosphere programme, paleoclimate reconstructions, temperature reconstructions, pleistocene, antarctica, core, atmospheric chemistry, snow, paleo start date, methane, amd, air temperature reconstruction, ice core, geographic region, opendap, paleo start date 422,000 ybp, dust, ash, smoke, ice cap, continent, aerosols, nitrous oxide, cenozoic, volcanic deposits, co2, paleoclimate, particulate matter, earth science information partners program, paleo stop date, quaternary, igbp, polar, carbon dioxide, amd, us, ice cores, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, ch4, paleoenvironment, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, dods, ice core records, esip, oxygen isotopes, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Daily Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) ARC005: Stream Discharge for Kuparuk River, Arctic Tundra, Alaska. ABSTRACT: LTER - Long-Term Ecological Research Program Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska (ARC) LTER ARC005 [Summary adapted from the LTER Core Data Set Catalog]: Stage height readings were taken daily during the ice-free season at the Dalton Highway crossing of the Kuparuk River. Stage height discharge calibrations were made at a number of various stages. Discharge was then calculated from the stage height discharge curve. Information about the Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Program can be obtained from: "http:  lternet.edu ". KEYWORD: nsf, continent, stream discharge, arctic, lter, rivers, stream habitat, usa, nsf, arc, long-term ecological research, united states of america, north america, alaska, arc005, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, river discharge, streams, earth science, stage height, toolik lake, usa, nasa, biosphere, surface water, rivers, streams, ecosystems, geographic region, kuparuk river, 
TITLE: Observation Data of Weather at the gound of the Geat Wall Station ,Antarctic in 2002. ABSTRACT: The monthly mean of surface meteorological data at Geat Wall Station, Antarctic, Atmospheric pressure at Station level( hPa ), Air temperature of 1.5 m above the surface, Relative humidity( % ) of 1.5 m above the surface, Wind direction and wind speed of 10 m above the surface. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, continent, polar, temperature anomalies, surface pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, ceos, weather info, meteorological measurement system, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, mms, observatories, amd, cn, humidity, amd, geographic region, south pole, great wall station, 
TITLE: LAII Alaska Landscape Flux Survey NOAA ATDD Long-EZ Aircraft Data. ABSTRACT: The data in the aircraft portion of the Land Atmosphere Ice Interaction (LAII) Alaska Landscape Flux Survey (ALFS) were collected in June 1994, June 1995, August 1995, and June 1996. The object of the effort was to measure remote sensing variables, the vertical flux density of sensible and latent heat, CO2, and momentum for extrapolating surface-based measurements to regional scales. The aircraft operations were conducted from Deadhorse Airport near Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, and consisted of daytime and nighttime transect flights. The measured parameters included water vapor, sensible heat, CO2, Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR), and surface reflectances from the Alaskan North Slope tundra, and were used to study the factors that control spatial variability of the exchange. Scalar flux densities were measured with a resolution of approximately 2-3 km. Supporting meteorological parameters such as temperature, humidity, CO2 and H2O concentrations, wind speed and direction, surface temperature, incoming and net radiation were also observed. This study was conducted with the National Science Foundation and San Diego State University.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, opp9216109, incoming radiation, atmospheric temperature, surface radiative properties, altimeters, arctic, arcss051, usa, noaa, arctic system science, alfs, north america, alaska, net radiation, humidity, thermometers, radiometers, par, sensible heat, surface air temperature, wind speed, arctic system science data coordination center, wind direction, surface reflectance, opp9318527, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, opp-9216109, atmospheric winds, water vapor, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, radar altimeters, co2, vegetation, air temperature, alaskan north slope, usa, nsf, united states of america, alaska landscape flux survey, scalar flux density, temperature, flux, sensible_heat, heat flux, opp-9318527, latent heat, surface winds, polar, eddy correlation devices, h2o, reflectance, aircraft, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, tundra, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, radiation, surface temperature, 
TITLE: Echo Sounding Data for Fridtjof, Tavlee and Aldegond Outlet Glaciers, Svalbard. ABSTRACT: Echo sounding data for Fridtjof, Tavlee and Aldegond outlet glaciers (Svalbard).. KEYWORD: glaciers, echo sounders, polar, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, ipy, ocean, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Ice Dynamics Joint Experiment (AIDJEX) Second Pilot Study, March - May 1972: A Documentary Film. ABSTRACT: The project described in this documentary was a pilot study conducted in 1972 in preparation for the AIDJEX main experiment of 1975 to 1976.The study included a main camp on drifting sea ice in the Beaufort Sea north of Alaska along with two satellite camps forming a station triangle with a 100 km side length.A detailed description of the observational program and a running account of the results can be found in the AIDJEX Bulletin series published between 1970 and the end of the project in 1978.The Bulletin is accessible in hard copy in the Roger G. Barry Resource Office for Cryospheric Studies at NSIDC.The Polar Science Center at the University of Washington maintains an AIDJEX electronic library. It includes downloadable copies of the contents of all 40 AIDJEX Bulletins, AIDJEX Operations Manuals for the Pilot Study and the Main Experiment, and other resources. The film was produced by Hannes Zell and Dieter Wittich of Vienna, Austria under an arrangement with the AIDJEX Project Office at the University of Washington.The transfer of the original 16 mm film to electronic medium was performed by Victory Studios of Seattle, Washington, USA.The digital copy was donated to NSIDC by Dr. Norbert Untersteiner, AIDJEX Project Director.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, arctic sea ice, usa, noaa, beaufort sea, air sea ice interaction, ocean, sea ice, sea ice drift, oceans, geographic region, sea ice motion, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m (MYD10_L2) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution while all other fields are at 500 m resolution. Version 5 (V005), the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data available has two separate snow fields. The first field, snow cover, classifies each cloud-free land or inland water body pixel as snow-covered or snow-free, the second field, fractional snow cover, provides the percent of snow cover within each pixel for land and inland water bodies. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, eos pm-1, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, fractional snow cover, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Vegetation and Site Characterization, 1998-99 ATLAS Grid Transect, Northern Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set comprises the text and data presented in the data report "A western Alaskan transect to examine interactions of climate, substrate, vegetation, and spectral reflectance: ATLAS grids and transects, 1998-1999." The report is a compilation of data from two projects conducted on the North Slope of Alaska during the summers of 1998 and 1999. The first project involves environmental, climate, soil, vegetation, and remote-sensing data collected from 8 ATLAS (Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System) grids established along a North-South transect from Barrow to Ivotuk, Alaska. The original purposes of the study were (1) to characterize the major zonal vegetation types found along the North Slope climate gradient, (2) to quantify differences between acidic and non-acidic tundra along the same gradient, and (3) to investigate relationships between plant biomass, Leaf Area Index (LAI), and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI). This part also includes a brief analysis of interactions between plant functional type composition, LAI, NDVI, and summer temperature. This analysis is limited to moist acidic tundra (MAT) and moist non-acidic tundra (MNT) comparisons using data from six of the eight grids that best represent acidic and non-acidic mesic vegetation. The second project is an accuracy assessment of a Landsat MSS-derived landcover map of northern Alaska, which involved creating several large transects over northwest Alaska. Included here is a table of LAI measurements from eight random points along these transects, as well as the accompanying releve and site factor data sheets. No analysis of these data is presented.. KEYWORD: nsidc, opp-9732076, biomass harvests, advanced very high resolution radiometer, soil descriptions, soil moisture, water content, alpine, tundra, braun-blanquet, releve plots, plant communities, atlas, north slope climate gradient, arctic, vegetation species, leaf area index, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, arctic system science, atlas grids, topographic effects, lai, north america, summer warmth, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, north slope, landcover maps, ground stations, tundra vegetation, ground-based observations, barrow, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, vegetation cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, licor plant canopy analyzer, landforms, normalized difference vegetation index, opp9732076, ivotuk, releves, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, tundra ecosystems, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, moist non-acidic tundra, northern alaska, noaa poes, vegetation, plant species cover, cameras, usa, nsf, united states of america, ndvi, vegetation ecology, soils, avhrr, polar, vegetational, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, moist acidic tundra, land surface, arcss084, adcc, vegetation communities, national science foundation, vegetation classification, oumalik, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, lter, ice temperature, humidity, terrestrial hydrosphere, taylor valley, radiometers, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, temperature probes, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, glaciers, ice sheets, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, glaciers, continent, shortwave radiation, commonwealth glacier, outgoing shortwave radiation, air temperature, pyrgeometers, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, snow, ice, glacier, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, incoming longwave radiation, snow, ice temperature, radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: met.no DAMOCLES sea ice operational ice concentration and sst. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ice concentration (fraction of ice), and sea surface temperature analysis from the met.no operational coupled ice-ocean model Arctic-20. Each file contains one month of daily analysis valid at 00 GMT. The quality of this data set will vary due to model upgrades, and should therefore in the long term, improve with time. New model-versions are tested semi-operationally before they are included in this data set.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, asimillation, sea_water_temperature, sea_ice_area_fraction, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, ice, forecast, sea, arctic, no, ipy, ocean, nordic seas, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid Annual Freezing and Thawing Indices, 1901 - 2002. ABSTRACT: This data set contains annual freezing and thawing indices for each year from 1901 to 2002 on the 25 km resolution Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid). Annual freezing and thawing indices are defined as the cumulative number of degree-days when air temperatures are below and above 0 degrees C. The values were calculated based upon the monthly mean air temperature from the 1901-2002, 0.5 deg. global land temperatures from the University of East Anglia Climate Research Unit (Mitchell and Jones, 2005). Two ASCII files are available for each year for the freezing and thawing indices, respectively. Each file is approximately 5.5 MB in size. In addition, there is one 10.4 MB ASCII file defining the latitude and longitude coordinates for each grid point. The data set is available in compressed form via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, thawing degree-day, atmospheric temperature, surface air temperature, arctic, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, thawing index, air temperature, usa, noaa, usa, nsf, northern hemisphere, freezing index, ocean, degree days, freezing, thawing index, freezing degree days, thawing degree days, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Yearly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: The Coastal Gulf of Alaska Circulation Model (3-km grid). ABSTRACT: The SALMON Project is currently utilizing the Arctic Region Supercomputing Center (ARSC) to run numerical simulations of the circulation of the coastal Gulf of Alaska. The model in use is called the Regional Ocean Modeling System (ROMS), developed jointly by researchers at the University of California at Los Angeles and Rutgers University. It is run at a resolution of three kilometers and aligned in a nested grid configuration with Al Hermann's North East Pacific (NEP) domain. Open boundary conditions are provided by the NEP model and COADS monthly mean wind fields are used for the surface forcing. Tidal forcings are computed from Mike Foreman's northeast Pacific Ocean high-resolution assimilating tide model (Foreman et al., 2000) and are applied along the open boundaries of the model domain. Fresh water inputs consist of a continous line source of monthly mean values computed by Tom Royer's hydrologic model (Royer et al., 2001). The latest ROMS model run simulated three idealized years of circulation in the northern Gulf of Alaska.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, continent, water temperature, ocean temperature, heating rate, sea surface topography, united states of america, north america, alaska, heat flux, sea surface temperature, surface winds, ocean winds, salinity, models, wind stress, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric winds, sea surface height, ocean heat budget, oceans, salinity, density, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Data; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Digital land cover and terrain data of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) were prduced by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Earth Resources Observation Systems Field Office, Anchorage, Alaska for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). These and other environmental data, were incorporated into the USFWS geographic information system to prepare a comprehensive conservation plan for the ANWR and an environmental impact statement which addresses oil and gas development in the Arctic Coastal Plain, and to assist research of the Porcupine Caribou herd. The data set contains land cover classification derived from Landsat MSS data, and elevation, slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cells. Data source is Landsat MSS data, Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data, containing 299 records and the storage required varies by storage medium and selected area; file structure is sequential. Limited documentation and users guide are available. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: biological classification, terrain elevation, alpine, tundra, digital elevation model, ecological dynamics, arctic, mss, dem, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, land cover, models, topography, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, arctic natl. wildlife refuge, animals, vertebrates, landforms, alaska directory, conservation, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, landsat-3, landsat-2, landcover, us fws, birds, geology, united states of america, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, endangered species, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Climate and Flux Data from Alaska Sites, 1998-2000. ABSTRACT: This data set contains climate, flux, and bulk density data from Ivotuk and Council (Seward Peninsula), Alaska, collected from 1998 through 2000. Surface energy and trace gas exchange measurements were made at each of the four Ivotuk sites using the eddy covariance technique. Three flux and climate towers operated at Council, Seward Peninsula, during 1999 and 2000. Two towers were located at the tundra and forest sites. The third tower was a mobile tower and during 1999 covered four different surface types: lowshrub, shrub, woodland, and burned tundra. During 2000, the mobile tower covered tall shrub, tundra ISS2, burned tundra, heath and shallow thaw lake. The data have been divided by surface type or site and by data type (flux or climate). The data set also includes mean bulk density measurements for soil layers, collected in 1999. Measurements were taken as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (LAII-ATLAS) program. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9818066. Data are available by FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arctic, wind velocity, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, nondispersive infrared gas analyzer, north america, soil bulk density, ndir gas analyzer, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, net radiation, humidity, radiometers, ground-based observations, trace gases, trace species, surface air temperature, wind speed, office of polar programs, national science foundation, anemometers, biosphere, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, longwave radiation, water vapor, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, shortwave radiation, arcss, laii, vegetation, canopy characteristics, air temperature, pyranometers, usa, nsf, united states of america, arcss904, probes, heat flux, soils, surface winds, polar, opp-9818066, ggd904, surface energy, national snow and ice d, vapor pressure deficit, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, adcc, carbon dioxide fluxes, opp9818066, national science foundation, net radiometers, 
TITLE: Raw data of XBT and XCTD data of CHINARE-16 (Dec. 1999-Feb. 2000). ABSTRACT: XBT and XCTD probes were droped along a section north of the Weddell Sea, Antarctica, to measure temperatures and salinities at the upper ocean (above 1000m), during the austral summer of 1999 2000.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, xctd, southern ocean, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, xbt, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, weddell sea, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day (MOD29P1D) data set contains fields for Sea Ice by Reflectance, Sea Ice by Reflectance Spatial QA, Ice Surface Temperature (IST), and Ice Surface Temperature Spatial QA in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. The fields Sea Ice by IST and Combined Sea Ice that were in Version 4 were removed from Version 5. MOD29P1D Version 5 (V005), the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, consists of 954 x 954 km files of 1 km resolution data gridded in the Lambert Azimuth Equal Area map projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Extended Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer Polar Pathfinder Satellite Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of AVHRR retrievals of surface and cloud properties as well as radiative fluxes for the period 1982 - 1999 over the Arctic and Antarctic at a 25 km resolution. The images times are 1400 and 0400 (Arctic) or 0200 (Antarctic) local solar times. Resulsts are calculated on a twice-daily basis, but only monthly mean images and area-averaged values are currently online. The standard AVHRR Polar Pathfinder (APP) product includes gridded radiances, viewing and illumination geometry, clear sky surface temperature and albedo, and three cloud masks at a 5 km resolution. We have extended the standard APP product to include all-sky surface temperature, all-sky surface albedo, cloud properties (particle phase, effective radius, optical depth, temperature and pressure), and radiative fluxes as well as cloud radiative effect ("forcing"). We refer to this dataset as APP-x.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, radiative flux, advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, clouds, cloud optical depth, thickness, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, antarctica, cloud forcing, net radiation, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, avhrr, 
TITLE: X. Postal Codes by Federal Ridings (1996 Representation Order) File, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Postal Codes by Federal Ridings File (PCFRF) provides a link between the six character postal codes and the federal electoral districts (1996 Representation Order). A federal electoral district (commonly referred to as a federal riding) is any place or territory entitled to return a Member of Parliament (MP) to sit in the House of Commons. The PCFRF is intended as a tool for use with administrative files containing postal codes. By using the postal code as a link, data from administrative files may be organized and or tabulated by federal riding. This PCFRF allows a link of more than 680,000 postal code records to the 301 federal electoral districts (1996 Representation Order). A reference guide is included. Catalogue Number: 92F0028XDB PCFRF update: 92F0028UDB ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The postal code federal riding file was conceived as a tool for use with administrative files containing postal codes. By using the postal code as a link, data from administrative files may be organized and or tabulated by federal riding. Using this tool, federal government departments will be able to respond more quickly and easily to MPs requests for information about their ridings. For example, the number and value of contracts awarded to a particular riding could be summarized. The ridings where petition signatories reside could also be identified in order to notify the appropriate Members of Parliament. Conversely, the postal codes for a given riding could be identified for general mailings to constituents; however, it should be noted that some postal codes do straddle one or more riding boundaries. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, postal codes, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, federal electoral districts, handbooks, northern hemisphere, terminology, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, data quality, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Drift Tracks from Ships, Buoys and Manned Research Stations, 1872-1973. ABSTRACT: Thirty-four drift tracks in the Arctic Ocean pack ice are collected in a unified tabular data format, one file per track. Data are from drifting ships, manned research stations on ice floes (ice islands) and data buoys. Track names are FRAM (ship, 1893 to 1896), NP-01 through NP-20 (Soviet North Pole stations on ice floes, 1937, 1950, 1954 to 1970), IGY-A and IGY-B (International Geophysical Year ice camps, 1957 to 59), T-3 (Fletcher's Ice Island, 1959 to 1970), ARLIS-II (Arctic Research Laboratory Ice Station II ice camp, 1961 to 1965), BTAE (British Transarctic Expedition, 1968 to 1969), seven buoys deployed during the AIDJEX (Arctic Ice Dynamics Joint Experiment) pilot study (1972), TEGG (Austrian ship Tegetthoff, 1872 to 1873) and St. Anna (Russian ship, 1912 to 1914).. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, ice island, ice floes, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, noaa, buoys, ships, ice buoys, ocean, sea ice, sea ice drift, oceans, ship tracks, ground stations, geographic region, sea ice motion, 
TITLE: Zooplankton of the Arctic Seas 2002 on CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: Zooplankton of the Arctic Seas 2002 This disc contains physical and biological data from the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions from the Barents Sea to the Northwest Pacific. The data is based on 2,045 samples collected during 25 scientific cruises between 1903 atd 1956. All primary data are presented on this CD-ROM in a commrn format. Included are maps of the station locations and a list of zooplankton taxa collected during these cruises. All taxonomic descriptions have been reviewed against the ITIS (Integrated Taxonomic Information System) taxonomic database and other literature sources.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, ammonia, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, total nitrogen, earth science information partners program, phytoplankton, organic phosphates, water quality, water chemistry, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, oxygen, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, ocean chemistry, benthos, nitrogen compounds, nitrogen, earth science, phosphate, chlorophyll, ceos, chlorophyll c, biosphere, alkalinity, chlorophyll b, chlorophyll a, ecosystem functions, ships, primary production, silicate, benthic habitat, ocean, ph, oceans, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: ISPG Thermal Maturity Database. ABSTRACT: This dataset is on PC - based Paradox for Windows. The data is a series of tables linking thermal maturity data back to geographic location and geology. The areas covered include all of mainland Canada north of the 60 degree parallel. This dataset is being prepared to be published in the GSC Open File system.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, geothermal energy, vitrinite reflectance, mid-latitude, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, kerogen colour, conodont colour, maturation, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, geothermal, thermal imagery, spectral, engineering, thermal infrared, diagenesis, vertical location, polar, infrared wavelengths, geochemistry, hydrocarbons, earth science, ceos, land surface, canada, cgdi, canada, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Canadian National and Regional Temperature Departures (1895-1992), in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: This dataset represents Canadian national and regional average temperature departures (from a 1951-1980 reference) derived from data contained in the Historical Canadian Climate Database (HCCD) for the period 1895-1992. The HCCD contains homogeneous maximum, minimum, and mean temperature data sets for 131 locations in Canada. The individual station departures series were combined into regional series representing 11 Canadian climate regions, outlined in the State ` of the Environment Report, SOE 92-2 (Gullett and Skinner, 1992). The 11 regions are: Atlantic Canada Great Lakes Basin St. Lawrence Lowlands Northeastern Forest Northwestern Forest Prairies South British Columbia Mountains Pacific Coast Yuokon North British Columbia Mountains Mackenzie District Arctic Tundra Arctic Mountains and Fiords The citation for this dataset is: Findlay, B.F., D.W. Gullett, L. Malone, J. Reycraft, W.R. Skinner, L. Vincent, and R. Whitewood.1994. "Canadian national and regional temperature departures", pp. 738-764. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change. ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA The Canadian temperature data is available via ftp from: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 temp". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, vertical location, polar, temperature anomalies, ftp, trends'93, atmospheric temperature, surface air temperature, greenhouse effect, arctic, earth science, land surface, air temperature, usa, nasa, hccd, troposphere, envioronment canada, global warming, land surface temperature, canada, north america, land temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Geotechnical Data - Western Canadian Arctic. ABSTRACT: Geotechnical, geological and permafrost data are available from onshore and offshore sites in the Mackenzie Delta and Beaufort Sea. Major projects and locations are listed below by date. 1985 86 - 20 30m deep geotechnical ground temperature boreholes along a 1km onshore offshore transect N. Richards Island ~ location 69 35' N 134 30 W 1988 - 13 30m deep geotechnical ground temperature boreholes along a 1.5km onshore offshore transect N. Richards Island ~location 69 42' N 134 30'W 1988 - 3 30m deep geotechnical ground ice boreholes from Tuktoyaktuk Peninsula ~location 69 25' N 133 15' W 1990 - 6 100m deep geotechnical ground temperature boreholes along a 30km onshore offshore transect N. Richards Island ~location 69 55' N 134 W 1992 - 3 >100m deep geotechnical ground temperature boreholes along a 20km transect across the Mackenzie Delta ~location 69 20'N 135 20'WGeotechnical studies to characterize the geology and permafrost characteristics of onshore and offshore areas.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, tuktoyaktuk peninsula, mid-latitude, arctic, geotechnical, nunavut, geology, paleoclimate, northwest territories, marine, boreholes, northern hemisphere, land surface temperature, north america, ocean, lake records, surficial, soil temperature, soils, snow, ice, land records, north pacific ocean, vertical location, polar, ground temperature, pacific ocean, northwestern canada, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, mackenzie delta, beaufort sea, bedrock lithology, canada, cgdi, permafrost, ocean, canada, land temperature, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: NSIDC Meteorological Data from the Russian Arctic, 1961-2000. ABSTRACT: "This data set contains monthly means of meteorological observation data from Russian stations from 1961-2000 (for most stations). The Russian station observations were provided by Vladimir Radionov, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, and include 2-meter air temperature, sea level pressure, total and low cloud amount, precipitation, and relative humidity. Data are available in ASCII text format via FTP.", quoted from NSIDC site. NSIDC strongly encourages you to register [http:  nsidc.org forms contact.html] as a user of this data product. As a registered user, you will be notified of updates and corrections.", quoted summary from NSIDC documentation. The data files and associated documentation were downloaded to this DSS site in January 2007. Please properly cite this data by referring to ' DS DOCUMENTATION [http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets ds489.0 docs ]'.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, precipitation amount, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, surface air temperature, fixed observation stations, arctic, earth science, weather stations, clouds, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, precipitation, cloud amount, frequency, usa, ncar, humidity, ground stations, geographic region, meteorological stations, 
TITLE: Morphometric Characteristics of Ice and Snow in the Arctic Basin: Aircraft Landing Observations from the Former Soviet Union, 1928-1989. ABSTRACT: This data set contains sea ice and snow measurements collected during aircraft landings associated with the Soviet Union's historical Sever airborne and North Pole drifting station programs. The High-Latitude Airborne Annual Expeditions Sever (Sever means North) took place in 1937, 1941, 1948-1952, and 1954-1993 (Konstantinov and Grachev, 2000). In Spring 1993, the last (45th) Sever expedition finished long-term activity in the Arctic. Snow and sea ice data were collected, along with meteorological and hydrological measurements (the latter are not part of this data set). Up to 202 landings were accomplished each year. The data set contains measurements of 23 parameters, including ice thickness and snow depth on the runway and surrounding area; ridge, hummock, and sastrugi dimensions and areal coverage; and snow density. The sea ice thickness data are of particular importance, as ice thickness measurements for the Arctic Basin are scarce. These data are a subset of those used to create the atlas Morphometric Characteristics of Ice and Snow in the Arctic Basin, self-published by Ilya P. Romanov in 1993, and republished by Backbone Publishing Company in 1995. Romanov provided these data to the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) in 1994.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, north pole drifting station, moorings, arctic, ice deformation, arctic sea ice, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, hummocks, noaa, russia, sever, sea ice, g02140, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, europe, ground-based observations, snow density, polar, ice floes, ice roughness, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, north pole, eastern europe, ocean, ocean platforms, arctic basin, ice depth, thickness, width, oceans, sea ice elevation, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes relative humidity measurements as recorded by temperature relative humidity probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, atmospheric water vapor, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, humidity, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: UK classical hydrographic station data set (1893-). ABSTRACT: Oceanographic data has been routinely collected by UK research and naval vessels since the beginning of the twentieth century. This data set, compiled by the ICES Oceanographic Data Centre, comprises some 90939 profiles. All of the profiles in this data set have been quality checked, cross-checked against original documentation, and all duplications removed. This data set is one of the most complete of its kind in the world; about 90 per cent of the data known to have been collected prior to 1970 have been 'rescued' and work will continue to rescue the remainder. The data set only includes the classical oceanographic parameters of temperature, salinity, nutrients, oxygen, pH, alkalinity, and chlorophyll a. In recent years, CTD data have been collected in a higher resolution form than water bottle data; these have been included in this data set in a reduced resolution water bottle form and merged with any available chemical parameters. The data comprising this data set have been collected in the shelf seas around the UK, the North Atlantic, the Norwegian Sea, the Barentsz Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the South Atlantic, the Southern Oceans, the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Sea and the East Indian Archipelago (Indonesia). [This description was derived from the BODC WWW pages.]. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continental shelf, arctic, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean temperature, salinometers, uk continental shelf, nutrients, conductivity, temperature, depth, mediterranean sea, ctd, east indian archipelago, thermometers, south atlantic, oxygen, barents sea, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, std, pigments, arabian sea, southern ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, alkalinity, indonesia, water bottles, ships, idn_node gsfc, bodc, shelf seas, north atlantic, ocean, ph, barentsz sea, oceans, salinity, temperature, depth, amd, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: TOVS Pathfinder Path-P Daily and Monthly Polar Gridded Atmospheric Parameters. ABSTRACT: The TIROS-N Operational Vertical Sounder (TOVS) Polar Pathfinder (Path-P) data set consists of gridded daily and monthly Arctic and Antarctic atmospheric data derived from various NOAA satellites. TOVS Path-P daily files are available for the Northern and Southern Hemispheres from 60 poleward at 100 km gridded spatial resolution in an Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid). TOVS Path-P monthly files are available for the Northern Hemisphere only from 60 poleward at 100 km gridded spatial resolution in EASE-Grid. Daily and monthly Northern Hemisphere data are available from January 1979 through current processing, and daily Southern Hemisphere data are available from July 1979 through current processing. Data were created from a modified version of the Improved Initialization Inversion Algorithm (3I) (Chedin et al. 1985), a physical-statistical retrieval method improved for use in identifying geophysical variables in snow- and ice-covered areas (Francis 1994). Variables retrieved from satellite-observed radiances for this product include atmospheric temperature, water vapor, skin surface temperature, total effective cloud fraction, cloud top pressure and temperature, solar zenith elevation, surface pressure, turning angle between geostrophic wind and surface stress over ice, emissivity, boundary layer stratification, and geostrophic drag coefficient. The algorithm used to generate these grids has been validated through comparisons with surface observations from the North Pole drifting meteorological stations (Schweiger et al. 1999). The complete TOVS data set is available via FTP in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF). Users may also order subsets of the data for any of the parameters listed above or for specific spatial or temporal coverage. Subsetted data are available in binary format only through the Graphical Interface for Subsetting, Mapping, and Ordering (GISMO). Data users are encouraged to register before accessing the TOVS data. Registered users automatically receive release notes via e-mail containing notification of data manipulation or formatting modifications.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, emissivity, atmospheric temperature, arctic, ice, usa, noaa, effective cloud fraction, msu, noaa-10, microwave sounding unit, northern hemisphere, noaa-14, noaa-13, noaa-12, north polar basin, noaa-11, path p, wind stress, surface air temperature, atmospheric stratification, sounders, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, cearex, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-13, cloud properties, atmospheric winds, hirs, skin temperature, earth observing system data information system, turning angle, southern hemisphere, oceans, amd, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, atmospheric radiation, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, geostrophic wind, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, ice surface skin temperature, boundary layer, air temperature, clouds, cloud fraction, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, tovs, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, polar exchange at sea surface, ocean surface skin temperature, cloud top pressure, polar, ocean winds, initialization inversion algthm, coordinated eastern arctic experiment, nsidc daac, cloud top temperature, poles, earth science, ceos, boundary layer stratification, usa, nasa, temperature profiles, daac, noaa-8, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, humidity profiles, noaa-6, snow ice, noaa-7, cloud tops, geostrophic drag coefficient, esip, high resolution infrared radiation sounder, 
TITLE: National Scale Frameworks Hydrology - Catchments, Canada. ABSTRACT: Atlas of Canada National Frameworks data are standardized national coverages of commonly used geospatial data sets at the 1:1 000 000 scale. A variety of framework layers (e.g. hydrology, roads, railways, populated places) have been integrated so that their relative positions are correct. Hydrology (which includes coastline) is the base layer to which all others are fitted. In addition, the Atlas of Canada National Frameworks collection forms a base to which an increasing number of national scale thematic frameworks from other Federal Government agencies are integrated (e.g. ecological regions, census subdivisions). The National Scale Frameworks Hydrology data consists of area, linear and point geospatial and attribute data for Canada's hydrology at a national scale. It provides a representation of Canada's surface water features, and data completeness reflects the content of the source, the original Vector Map level 0 (VMAP0) revision 4 hydrographic layers, except where revision editing has been performed. Key value-added characteristics include river flow direction, connectivity and the tagging of geographical name keys to selected rivers,lakes and islands included in the Concise Gazetteer of Canada. The product set for the hydrology theme consists of six groupings: - Drainage Network Skeleton - Waterbodies - Islands - Drainage Areas - Supplemental Drainage Features (Catchments, Hydrometric Gauging Stations and Station Basins) - Cartographic. The Catchments data set is part of the Supplemental Drainage Features group of features. This data set is a polygon coverage representing an approximate catchment area for each individual river segment and lake in the drainage network. Each catchment is coded to correspond to a flowline in the Drainage Network Skeleton dataset.The Atlas Frameworks are a set of integrated base map layers which form part of a larger National-Scale Frameworks data collection. These data have been compiled at a scale of 1:1 000 000 with the primary goal being to indicate correct relative positioning with other framework layers rather than absolute positional accuracy. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, hydrographic network, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, lakes, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, hydrology, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, surface water, hydrography, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, rivers, streams, new brunswick, drainage, river, geographic region, western hemisphere, lake, drainage system, 
TITLE: Coordinated Eastern Arctic Experiment (CEAREX) Model Forcing and Data for the GEWEX Cloud System Study Data Integration for Model Evaluation (GCSS-DIME). ABSTRACT: The Coordinated Eastern Arctic Experiment (CEAREX) was a multi-platform field program conducted in the Norwegian Seas and Greenland north to Svalbard from September 1988 through May 1989. Canada, Denmark, France, Norway and the United States participated in the experiment. This case study presents data from 1 Sep 1988 to 31 May 1989 and covers a region from 60N to 80N latitude and from 25W to 25E longitude. The data for this experiment is under Working Group 5 (Polar Clouds) of the GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) is to improve the parameterization of precipitating convective cloud systems in global climate models (GCMs) and numerical weather prediction models through an improved physical understanding of cloud system processes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, reason, atmospheric temperature, surface radiative properties, arctic, cloud precipitable water, visible radiance, precipitation, ncep, thermal properties, ozone abundance, north america, gewex, noaa-11, convair cv-580, spectral, engineering, humidity, international satellite cloud climatology project, infrared radiance, rawinsondes, ground-based observations, models, gewex cloud system study data integration for model evaluation, infrared wavelengths, ecmwf, relative humidity, surface pressure, wind speed, cearex, cloud optical depth, thickness, northern europe, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, cloud forcing, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ships, visible wavelengths, ocean, water vapor, global energy and water cycle experiment, limited area models, single column models, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, gcss-dime, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, altitude, sea level pressure, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, clouds, air temperature, ozone, tovs, geopotential height, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, greenland, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, scandinavia, precipitable water, isccp, europe, cloud top pressure, radiance, surface winds, polar, coordinated eastern arctic experiment, reflectance, cloud top temperature, norwegian sea, earth science, oxygen compounds, land surface, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, atmospheric pressure, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, norway, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Historical Methane (CH4) Record from the Vostok (Antarctica) Ice Core (157,000-26000 BP), in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: Atmospheric concentrations of methane (CH4) have been derived from ice core data in Antarctica for nearly 160,000 years. The 2,083-m-long ice core taken by the Soviet Antarctica Expedition at Vostok (East Antarctica) has been analyzed for atmospheric CH4 concentrations from the Holocene (as recent as 2569 years BP) and back through that last glaciation and the previous interglacial period to the end of the preceding glaciation. Data show increased CH4 concentration during glacial-interglacial transitions at 150,000-133,000 years BP and at 18,000-9000 years BP. The Vostok ice core data was provided by D. Raynaud, J. Chappellaz, J.M. Barnola, and C. Lorius (Laboratoire de Glaciologie et Geophysique de l'Environnement, France) and Y.S. Korotkevich (Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, Russia). The citation for this datasetis: Chappellaz, J., J.M. Barnola, D. Raynaud, C.Lorius, and Y.S. Korotkevich. 1994. 'Historical CH4 record from the Vostok ice cores', pp. 229-232. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change', ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA. Data from Vostok are tabulated in the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center's (CDIAC's) 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change' (Boden, et al, eds., 1994) as depth, year, and CH4 concentration (ppmv) and is available via ftp: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 ch4 ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, trends'93, greenhouse effect, holocene, arctic, paleoclimate, greenhouse gas, vostok, snow, ice chemistry, ground stations, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, amd, us, ftp, trace gases, trace species, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, ch4, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global warming, methane, amd, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, 
TITLE: Happy Valley Permanent Vegetation Plots. ABSTRACT: This data set includes environmental, soil, and vegetation information collected from 55 relev plots at the Happy Valley research site along the Sagavanirktok River in northern Alaska. To complement formal relev sampling of vegetation during the period July 18-27, 1994, the investigators described each study site (including site topography, surficial geology, estimated snow duration, soil moisture, thaw depth, and signs of disturbance, among other parameters) and collected soil samples adjacent to the relev plots for laboratory analyses. Soil analyses include measurements of soil chemistry, pH, organic matter content, and texture (percentages of sand, silt, and clay). Ordination analysis displays relev data in two-dimensional space according to species similarity. Results from ordination reveal that three environmental variables -- stability, exposure, and soil moisture -- significantly affect vegetation composition.. KEYWORD: nsidc, opp9318530, soil descriptions, biological classification, soil moisture, water content, alpine, tundra, braun-blanquet, releve plots, plant communities, arctic, vegetation species, usa, noaa, arctic system science, bryophytes, vascular plants, topographic effects, north america, alaska, ordination, north slope, ground stations, tundra vegetation, soil classification, phosphorus, happy valley, texture estimates, ground-based observations, soils data, arctic system science data coordination center, soil sampler, topography, soil pits, vegetation cover, magnesium, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, permanent vegetation plots, landforms, permafrost, opp-9318530, photographs, organic matter, releves, soil properties, geographic region, tundra ecosystems, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, thaw depth measurements, continent, potassium, northern alaska, soil analyses, vegetation, plant species cover, cameras, usa, nsf, united states of america, sagavanirktok river, vegetation ecology, soils, detrended correspondence analysis, polar, soil texture, vegetational, calcium, soil moisture, nitrogen, earth science, indigenous vegetation, arcss083, ceos, land surface, field description, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, vegetation communities, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, fungi, soil ph, vegetation classification, lichens, soil salinity, soil sodicity, soil organic matter content, environmental data, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Daily Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Wave Spectra Data. ABSTRACT: Each ERS-1 Wave Spectra Data product contains the wavelength and wave direction of the peaks detected in the Fourier spectra of subscenes of a full-resolution 4-look ground range SAR image. Up to 24 subscenes may be specified per 100x100 km image. Individual data products are very small (about 20 KBytes) and are available electronically as well as on 9-track or 8 mm tape. The data is presented in CEOS format. Approval by NASA is required to obtain the data. Please contact ASF user services to become a NASA approved investigator.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sar daac, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, eosdis, ers-1, sea surface, earth science information partners program, spectral, engineering, ocean waves, polar, vertical location, wave spectra, sar, pacific ocean, earth science, idn_node gsfc, asf, usa, nasa, radar imagery, daac, synthetic aperture radar, radar, earth observing system data information system, ocean, asf daac, global change, oceans, esip, sar data, geographic region, 
TITLE: Physical and Chemical Properties from Selected Expeditions in the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: This data collection includes measurements of temperature, salinity, conductivity, pH, and concentrations of silicate, oxygen, nitrate, nitrite, and phosphorus in the Arctic Ocean. The data were collected sporadically since 1950, from icebreakers, research vessels, and ice camps using traditional wire casts, CTD (conductivity, temperature, depth) casts, and CTD rosette casts. Also included are positional data and, for some expeditions, derived measurements of oxygen, nutrients, and alkalinity. The data are in NODC .SD2 and .F022 formats. The purpose of this data collection is to preserve and distribute physical and chemical data from the Arctic Ocean that have been gathered through a cooperative international effort involving the United States, Canada, Germany, Sweden, and Russia.. KEYWORD: oden 91, arctic ocean, eurasian basin experiment, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, oceanographic data, norwegian, ymer-80, ctd, north water polynya, pfs polarstern, eubex, ocean chemistry, russian, ccgs louis s. st-laurent cruise, spitsbergen, bottle rosettes, ships, nitrite, aos-94, nogap, oceans, nsf, opp, nsf, ocean water phosphorus concentrations, ocean water conductivity measurements, eurasion basin experiment, north atlantic ocean, ice islands, canada basin, wods, usa, nsf, fram basin, arctic ice dynamics joint experiment, helicopter, eurasian basin, depth probes, ocean water salinity measurements, polar, lorex, makarov basin, shipboard measurements, norwegian sea, greenland sea, laptev sea, national science foundation, peary channel, ocean water ph measurements, conductivity temperature depth probes, nsidc, nansen basin, ocean water chemistry measurements, ocean water temperature measurements, conductivity, temperature, depth, conductivity, ocean water oxygen concentrations, oxygen, fram strait, aidjex, arctic internal wave experiment, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, north pole, profile data, ocean water nitrite concentrations, ocean, lomonosov ridge experiment, swedish arctic expedition, salinity, density, geographic region, chukchi sea, amundsen basin, international research, fram, aiwex, nitrate, ocean water nitrate concentrations, northern oil and gas action program, arcss077, ctd probes, barents sea, salinity, scripps institute for oceanography, east siberian sea, arctic ocean basin, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, ocean water silicate concentrations, adcc, water bottles, silicate, ph, arktis, atlantic ocean, kara sea, 
TITLE: Database of Benthic Macrofaunal Biomass and Productivity Measurements for the Eastern Canadian Continental Shelf, Slope and Adjacent Areas (OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: Measurements of biomass and productivity of seabed macrobenthic and megabenthic organisms, from studies in eastern North America from New England to the Canadian Arctic dating from 1954 to 2000, have been assembled into a comprehensive, georeferenced, database. Information sources include primary publications, technical reports and unpublished data from scientific studies, commercial fisheries surveys, and monitoring and baseline studies carried out for offshore petroleum exploration. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis. OBIS Schema concepts present in this dataset include: Date Last Modified, Institution Code, Collection Code, Catalog Number, Scientific Name, Source, Citation, Phylum, Year Collected, Country, Locality, Longitude, Latitude, Observed Weight, Notes.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, mid-latitude, arthropods, echinoderms, ecological dynamics, abundance, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, marine biodiversity, distribution, obis, northern hemisphere, north america, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, gulf of maine, vertical location, polar, census of marine life, coml, community dynamics, nova scotia, earth science, weight, ocean biogeographic information system, benthic animals, usa, nasa, biosphere, benthic habitat, ocean, canada, atlantic ocean, obis, ca, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: AARI 10-Day Arctic Ocean EASE-Grid Sea Ice Observations. ABSTRACT: These gridded ice charts represent a reformatting of information contained in another data set, the Russian Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute's (AARI) 10 Day Digital Arctic Sea Ice Charts. AARI digitized Arctic sea ice concentration and stage of development charts as part of an international data exchange program. The AARI source charts, similar to operational charts distributed by the National Ice Center describing ice type and constitution, were developed from aircraft and satellite observations for shipping purposes, and provide extremely detailed information. Such data are particularly valued in process studies tracking the growth and recession of polynyas, or for looking at the preponderance of ice at certain stages of development in a particular area. NSIDC does not maintain the operational charts, but archives the AARI digitized version. However, the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) 10 Day Digital Arctic Sea Ice Charts were encoded in SIGRID (Sea Ice Grid) format, which assigns numerical values to ice parameters and records them at specific lat lon grid points. But due to the difficulties of visualizing, extracting and working with data in SIGRID, NSIDC is now providing AARI data in NSIDC's Equal Area SSM I Earth Grid. The EASE-Grid format makes it especially easy to compare observed ice concentrations or ice types with the same parameters derived from satellite data (such as ice concentrations from passive microwave sensors). AARI sea ice data in the EASE-Grid projection are gridded at a 12.5 km resolution, for both Western (24W to 110E) and Eastern (105E to 130W) sectors. Data extend from 1953 through 1990, and are available via ftp in compressed tar format. Postscript (.ps) files depicting coverage per year are also provided with the data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, ice charts, sea ice concentration, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea ice extent, ice form, usa, noaa, eosdis, earth science information partners program, ice types, sea ice, north polar basin, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, sea ice stage of development, barents sea, north pacific ocean, sea ice age, bering sea, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, sea ice form, digitizer, earth observing system data information system, ocean, polynyas, oceans, stage of development, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, chukchi sea, 
TITLE: Marine Mammal Incidental Catch Data; NMML. ABSTRACT: The data base contains marine mammal incidental catch data from commercial fisheries (foreign and joint venture) in U.S. waters of the North Pacific and Bering Sea. Data includes date, location, species of marine mammal, condition of animal, vessel on which mammal was caught during fishing operations. There are no earth science type data (no physical or chemical science data). All data are biological fishery type data and there are no data from north of the Bering Sea. The data is from the 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone only. There is no useful map data. Data are in archive storage format only and are not readily accessible. Data collection is ongoing but not automated since 1986.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, usa, noaa, marine, alaska coast, noaa, united states of america, mammal, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, coastal habitat, marine mammal, north pacific ocean, wildlife, bering sea, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, mammal population, maps, charts, usa, nasa, biosphere, nmml, pacific, animals, vertebrates, coastal alaska, alaska directory, coast, environment, wildlife distribution, ships, coastal alaska, bering sea, mammals, ocean, species, population interactions, fish, alaska coastal waters, endangered species, animal, geographic region, 
TITLE: Dataset of Zhongshan Station GPS tracking station system from 2004 to 2005. ABSTRACT: Zhongshan Station perennial satellite positioning tracking station is China's domestic satellite tracking network to the southern tip of the expansion of the Earth, both of China's satellite orbit determination or research, are very important to add, at the same time, China's participation in the window of the Antarctic cooperation. Antarctic geodesy research is based on the framework of the structure of SCAR (ICSU Antarctic Scientific Research Committee) was organized and implemented an international large-scale scientific research cooperation projects. The project began in 1992, conducted on an annual basis for 22 days the entire Antarctic GPS measurement battle together, our two stations since 1994 to participate. Its aims: (1) Measurement of the Antarctic plate quickly with the adjacent panels, as well as micro-plate faster faster the relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; (2) to identify the various internal Antarctic plate crust block the relative motion between; (3) reunification of the Antarctic, the vertical system of benchmarks to determine the Antarctic tide gauge stations of the elevation above sea level; (4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement, "the interaction of global and Antarctic" respect scientific research. In late 1998 of China's Zhongshan Station in the Battle of the SCAR GPS observatories built a perennial GPS satellite tracking station, the purpose of obtaining long-term follow-up site, a large number of, the original GPS system observational data through scientific calculation and comparison, access to GPS tracking site position in space with time resulting trajectory for the Antarctic region, geodynamics, geophysical structure and study the Earth's shape to provide information and data; and the Antarctic region precision positioning control points to provide quality date and reliable data. At the same time, the station of observational data on the analysis of satellite tracking technology to improve the accuracy of China's satellite orbit determination are useful.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, control surveys, gps receivers, gravitational field, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: Land-Cover Map of the North Slope of Alaska. ABSTRACT: This ARC INFO map provides a spatially explicit representation of the nature and distribution of land cover and tundra types on the North Slope of Alaska. This was done in support of extrapolating ecosystem models developed in the Kuparuk to the North Slope.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, alpine, tundra, shrubland, scrub, arc, info, arctic, vegetation, usa, noaa, opp-9415554, arctic system science, gis, wetlands, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, land cover, polar, maps, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, arcss, laii, flux, arcss020, adcc, opp9415554, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Ellesmere Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected during the course of a regional mapping project on southwestern Ellesmere Island, Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, ellesmere island, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Aeronautical Charts, Data and Information. ABSTRACT: The Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) National Aeronautical Charting Office (NCAO) s responsible for the public distribution of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Ocean Service (NOAA NOS) U.S. nautical charts and National Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA) worldwide aeronautical and nautical charts and publications as well as United States government civil aeronautical charts and flight information publications. The National Imagery and Mapping Agency's and NOAA NOS's public sale Worldwide Aeronautical Charts are available for sale through select Authorized Chart Agents and from the National Aeronautical Charting Office's Distribution Division. The NIMA aeronautical charts (also known as the Defense Mapping Agemcy (DMA) aeronautical charts), consists of the following: Flight Information Publications (FLIPs) - these are used in area flight planning for many regions around the globe at different altitudes. Aeronautical Chart Updating Manual (CHUM) - CHUM contains LORAN and miscellaneous notices to all DMA and NOAA charts that affect flight safety. DOD Weather Plotting Charts (WPC) - these are non-navigational charts showing locations and identifications of weather observing stations. Tactical Pilotage Charts (TPC) - these charts are on a scale of 1:500,000 and are used to support high speed, low altitude, radar and visual navigation of high performance tactical and reconnaissance aircraft at very low - medium altitudes. Global Navigation and Planning Charts (GNC) - these charts are on a scale of 1:5,000,000 and are used for flight planning and operations over long distances. These charts show principal towns, drainage, primary roads and railroads, prominent culture, shaded relief, and spot elevations. Global LORAN-C Coastal Navigation Charts (GLCC) - these charts are on a scale of 1:2,000,000 and are a series of three charts used for LORAN navigation for entry into the U.S. These charts show spot elevations, principal cities and international boundaries, drainage and lake elevations. Jet Navigation Charts (JNC) - these charts are on a scale of 1:2,000,000 and are used for long range, high altitude, high speed navigation. Features shown include large cities, roads, railroads, and drainage. Relief is shown by contours, spot elevations and gradient tints. Jet Navigation Charts - High Altitude (JNCA) - these charts are at 1:3,000,000 scale and provide coverage for high altitude, long range navigation over the polar areas. These charts include spot elevations and contours and large level terrain areas with elevations marked for radar altimetry. Principal cities, roads and railroads are shown. Lakes, drainage, permanent ice and snow areas and limits of polar ice pack are shown. Lake elevations are marked for radar altimetry. LORAN-C Navigaton Charts (LCC) - are at a scale of 1:3,000,000 and are related to the JNCA series to cover the polar areas. These charts are used for polar navigation in support of weather reconnaissance, air search and rescue missions and other operations in the Arctic area. Spot elevations, major cities railroads and roads, coast lines, major lakes and rivers are shown. Operational Navigation Charts (ONC) - are at a scale of 1:1,000,000. These charts are used for visual, celestial, and radio navigation and for high speed radar navigation. Joint Operations Graphics - Air (JOG) - these charts are at 1:250,000 for the U.S. only. Aeronautical information changes rapidly, and it is vitally important that pilots check the effective dates on each aeronautical chart and publication to be used. Obsolete charts and publications should be discarded and replaced by current editions. To make certain a chart or publication is current, refer to the next scheduled edition date printed on thecover or consult the Dates of Latest Editions. Pilots should also consult the Aeronautical Chart Bulletin available online or contained in an Airport Facility Directory and Notice to Airmen (NOTAMs) for changes, essential to the safety of flight, that may occur during the effective dates of a chart or publication.. KEYWORD: ice extent, terrain elevation, aerospace planning charts (asc), arctic, usa, noaa, navigation, pipelines, defense mapping agency, snow cover, north america, boundaries, operational navigation charts, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, jnc, oceanic planning charts (opc), tactical pilotage charts (tpc), maps, topography, land use, land cover, maps, charts, landforms, surface water, buildings, dod, political divisions, geographic region, continent, altitude, dod weather charts, jet navigation charts, department of defense, aeronautical charts, united states of america, lakes, cultural features, snow, ice, flip, polar, onc, earth science, cryosphere, air navigation data, ceos, land surface, surface features, transportation, infrastructure, rivers, streams, dma, drainage, joint operations graphics - air, 
TITLE: Monitoring and Manipulation of Tundra Response to Climate Change, Arctic LTER, Toolik Lake, Alaska. ABSTRACT: The investigator has undertaken long-term field experiments and monitoring at the Arctic Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) station, Toolik Lake, Alaska, exploring the effects of climate change on tundra vegetation. The resulting diverse data sets include, but are not limited to, biomass, species composition, stem growth, plant phenology, soil chemistry, soil moisture, greenhouse gas flux, surface water temperature, and weather data. The ARCSS Data Coordination Center provides links to these data, which are archived at the LTER Web site. A subset of these data, Daily Soil Temperature and Meteorological Data for Sites at Toolik Lake Alaska, is available at NSIDC.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, biological classification, alpine, tundra, ecological dynamics, lter, arctic, usa, noaa, biogeochemical cycles, arctic system science, precipitation, plant respiration, vascular plants, carbon, alaska, humidity, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, methane emissions, wind speed, birch, soil sampler, carex, stage height, solar radiation, magnesium, toolik lake, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, nutrient cycling, atmospheric winds, willow, deciduous vegetation, tundra ecosystems, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, brooks range, tussock tundra, air temperature, angiosperms (flowering plants), nutrients, usa, nsf, plants, deciduous plants, soils, surface winds, polar, biomass, cations, eriophorum vaginatum, tundra soils, carbon dioxide fluxes, opp-9614038, national science foundation, plant available nutrients, carbon dioxide emissions, opp9614038, arctic long term ecological research site, nsidc, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, arcss091, vegetation species, tundra species diversity, north america, north slope, dry heath tundra, tundra vegetation, phosphorus, climate change, rain, root mass, arctic system science data coordination center, arctic soils, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, automated weather system, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, surface water, ecosystem functions, plant phenology, water vapor, geographic region, arcss, fert plots, ledum, potassium, toolik lter, arcss, laii, soil respiration, vegetation, opp-9415411, long-term ecological research, united states of america, lakes, anions, stem secondary growth, calcium, wet sedge tundra, earth science, ceos, land surface, adcc, opp9415411, arctic lter, opp0096523, rivers, streams, ph, soil moisture probe, opp-0096523, aws, arc lter, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Marine Ecosystem Responses to Global Climate Change in the Bering and Chukchi Seas - 2007 (OSHORO-MARY IPY Research Cruise). ABSTRACT: Oceanographic and biological dataset from T S Oshoro-Maru cruises during IPY. Please see the website http:  odyssey.fish.hokudai.ac.jp IPY . Details were described in summary reports (see http:  odyssey.fish.hokudai.ac.jp IPY data2007 CruiseReport-Summary_Leg2&3.pdf).. KEYWORD: bering sea, arctic ocean, polar, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, marine environment monitoring, essar, ipy, ocean, international polar year, oceans, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, chukchi sea, ecosystem studies of subarctic and arctic regions, arctic, jp, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Carbon Dioxide, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained During the R V Meteor Cruise 15 3 in the South Atlantic (1991), CDIAC NDP051. ABSTRACT: This Numeric Data Package (NDP) from CDIAC consists of measurements of carbon dioxide (CO2), hydrographic and chemical data obtained during the Research Vessel (R V) Meteor Expedition 15 3 in the South Atlantic Ocean (Section A9) as part of the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE). The cruise began in Vitoria, Brazil on February 10, 1991, and ended in Pointe-Noire, Congo, on March 23, 1991. WOCE zonal Section A9 began at about 38W and continue along the 19S parallel until about 8E. Samples of total carbon dioxide (TCO2) were collected from 28 stations along the 19th parallel and at 3 diversions north and south of the 19th parallel. Measurements in WOCE Section A9 included pressure, temperature, salinity, and oxygen measured by conductivity, temperature and depth sensors (CTD); bottle salinity, oxygen, phosphate, nitrate, nitrite, silicate, CFC-113, CCl4, CFC-12, CFC-11, TCO2, total alkalinity (TALK), and partial pressure of CO2 (pCO2) were measured at 20 C. Measurements of TALK and TCO2 were also collected from 10 Niskin bottles at 4 stations. The R V Meteor Cruise 15 3 data set consists of two oceanographic data files, two FORTRAN 77 data retrieval programs, readme file, and printed documentation. More information on this data is available from: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov oceans ndp_051 ndp051.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, current meters, biogeochemical cycle, ccl4, arctic, bathythermographs, halocarbons and halogens, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, woce, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, cfc-12, conductivity, cfc-11, talk, human dimensions, oxygen, south atlantic ocean, climate change, ocean chemistry, std, single operator multiparameter metabolic analyzer, alkalinity, partial pressure co2, bathymetry, seafloor topography, atmospheric chemistry, ships, nitrite, water depth, ocean, chlorofluorocarbons, cfc-113, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, cfcs, chloroflurocarbons, contaminants, niskin bottles, expendable bathythermographs, co2, world ocean circulation experiment, nitrate, xbt, greenhouse gas, trace elements, ocean tracers, polar, carbon dioxide, salinity, pco2, tco2, total alkalinity, earth science, phosphate, environmental impacts, total carbon dioxide, carbon tetrachloride, carbon cycle, usa, nasa, somma, water bottles, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, silicate, acoustic doppler current profiler, salinity, temperature, depth, atlantic ocean, ndp051, adcp, coulometers, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Soil Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes soil temperature measurements at depths of 0, 5, and 10 cm. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, agriculture, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature, soils, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, land surface, soil temperatures, temperature probes, antarctica, lter mcm, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with high speed plankton collector by 8th CHINARE in 1991-1992. ABSTRACT: 53 planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean using high speed plankton collector.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: IABP-POLES 2-Meter Air Temperature Data Set [1979-1997]. ABSTRACT: The POLES Arctic Gridded 2-meter Air Temperature Data Set provides optimally interpolated 2-meter air temperatures on the EASE (Equal Area SSM I Earth) grid. 12-hourly "beta" fields have been analyzed from 1979 through 1997. The format of these files is as follows: grid point #, day * 10, AirT *100, then 4 flags that we have been using to check the dataset. The coordinates corresponding to each grid point can be found in the file latlon. Until recently the Arctic Ocean has lacked a systematic, accurate surface air temperature (SAT) data set. These fields of surface air temperature are essential for monitoring climate, assessing the environment, validating and driving model simulations and for input into studies of climate change. Martin and Muqoz (1997) have studied the accuracy of various gridded temperature data sets by comparing the values of each data set against measurements taken at the Russian North Pole (NP) drifting stations. A SAT analysis analyzed using optimal interpolation (OI) to combine buoy and land station data was also tested and found to have higher correlations with the measurements at the NP stations compared to the other gridded temperature data sets. The SAT data used to compute statistics and for the OI analysis are: 1.) Argos buoy data collected by the International Arctic Buoy Programme, 2.) North Pole manned drifting station data obtained from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia, and 3.) meteorological land station data obtained from NCAR, dataset 464.0.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar exchange at the sea surface, arctic ocean, polar, atmospheric temperature, poles, surface air temperature, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, atmospheric stratification, eos, air temperature, usa, nasa, nasa, earth science information partners program, earth observing system, ocean, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: ARM North Slope Alaska, Radiation Measurements. ABSTRACT: The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program is the largest global change research program supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ARM scientists focus on obtaining field measurements and developing models to better understand the processes that control solar and thermal infrared radiative transfer in the atmosphere (especially in clouds) and at the earth's surface. The URL for the ARM Data Archive is "http:  www.archive.arm.gov ". The URL for general information about the ARM program is "http:  www.arm.gov ". The data stored by the ARM Archive includes numerous parameters about radiative flux, meteorology, water vapor and clouds. The North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean (NSA AAO) site is providing data about cloud and radiative processes at high latitudes. These data are being used to refine models and parameterizations as they relate to the Arctic. The NSA AAO site is centered at Barrow and extends to the south (to the vicinity of Atqasuk), west (to the vicinity of Wainwright), and east (to Oliktok). Radiation data at Barrow (C1) and Atqasuk (C2) are collected using many specialized instruments. Detailed information on each instrument is available at "http:  www.arm.gov docs instruments.html". The following list contains the instrumentation used and the data available for the Barrow and Atqasuk sites. Atmospheric Emitted Radiance Interferometer (AERI). For complete information on the AERI, visit "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The AERI measures the absolute infrared spectral radiance (watts per square meter per steradian per wavenumber) of the sky directly above the instrument. The spectral measurement range of the instrument is 500 to 3300 wavenumbers(cm-1) or 20 to 3 microns. Spectral resolution is 1.0 cm-1. Instrument field-of-view is 1.3 degrees. A calibrated sky radiance spectrum is produced every 10 minutes. The AERI data can be used for (1) evaluating line-by-line radiative transport codes, (2) detecting  quantifying cloud effects on ground-based measurements of infrared spectral radiance, and (3) calculating vertical atmospheric profiles of temperature and water vapor. Primary measurements are (1) absolute infrared spectral radiance of the sky in units of watts per square meter per steradian per wavenumber; and (2) sky brightness temperature as a function of wavenumber in units of degrees Kelvin. Calculated quantities are (1) variance of sky infrared spectral radiance as a function of wavenumber and (2) vertical atmospheric profiles of temperature, potential temperature, mixing ratio, and relative humidity. At Barrow (C1), AERI data are available for 1998-09-22 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsaaerich1C1: channel 1 data nsaaerich2C1: channel 2 data nsaaeriengineerC1: engineering data nsaaerisummaryC1: summary data. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Multi-Filter Rotating Shadowband Radiometer (MFRSR or MFR). For complete information on the MFRSR, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The MFRSR takes spectral measurements of direct normal, diffuse horizontal, and total horizontal solar irradiances. These measurements are at nominal wavelengths of 415, 500, 615, 673, 870, and 940 nm. The measurements are made at a user specified time interval; typically this interval is about one minute or less, at the SGP site, the sampling interval is 20 seconds. From such measurements, one may infer the atmosphere's optical depth at the wavelengths mentioned above. In turn, these optical depths may be used to derive information about the column abundances of ozone and water vapor, as well as aerosol and other atmospheric constituents. A silicon detector is also part of the MFRSR. This broadband detector provides a measure of the broadband direct normal, diffuse horizontal, and total horizontal solar irradiances. These quantities are uncalibrated and reported in units of counts. An MFRSR head that is mounted to look vertically downward can measure upwelling spectral irradiances (at the same wavelengths as the MFRSR). In the ARM system, this instrument is called an MFR. At the SGP there are two MFRs; one mounted at the 10 m height and the other at 25 m. At the NSA sites, the MFRs are mounted at 10 m. The primary quantities measured by the system are: (1) the direct normal solar spectral irradiance, (2) the total horizontal solar spectral irradiance, and (3) the diffuse horizontal solar spectral irradiance. The measurements at each wavelength are made by a single filtered detector with a nominal 10-nm FWHM bandwidth. At Barrow (C1), MFR data are available for 1998-03-18 to present. At Atqasuk (C2), MFR data are available for 2000-04-25 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsagndmfr: ground-oriented MFR: upwelling radiances nsamfr10m: ground-oriented MFR: upwelling radiances at 10-m height nsamfrsr: MFRSR: downwelling irradiances Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. The Ground Radiation (GNDRAD) The GNRAD collection of radiometers provides continuous measurements of broadband shortwave (solar) and longwave (infrared) irradiances for upwelling components. For complete information on GNDRAD, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". At Barrow (C1), GNRAD data are available for 1998-04-06 to present. At Atqasuk (C2), GNRAD data are available for 2000-05-25 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsagndrad20s: 20-second upwelling radiation nsagndrad60s: 60-second upwelling radiation. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Normal Incidence Multi-Filter Radiometer (NIMFR). For complete information on the NIMFR, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". The NIMFR is a ground-based instrument that provides a time series of the shortwave spectral direct normal irradiance. Additionally, there is a broadband silicon detector that can crudely measure the direct normal broadband irradiance. These irradiance measurements can be used to infer clear sky aerosol optical depth and columnar abundances of ozone and water vapor. The NIMFR is one of a class of instruments known as sun photometers. The primary quantities measured by the NIMFR are direct normal spectral irradiances at six discrete wavelengths as well as a broadband measurement from the silicon detector. At Barrow (C1), NIMFR data are available for 1998-03-23 to present. At Atqasuk (C2), NIMFR data are available for 2000-04-16 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsanimfr: direct normal irradiances. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. The Sky Radiation (SKYRAD) The SKYRAD collection of radiometers provides continuous measurements of broadband shortwave (solar), longwave (infrared), and ultra violet irradiances for downwelling components. For complete information on SKYRAD, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments". At Barrow (C1), SKYRAD data are available for 1998-02-14 to present. At Atqasuk (C2), SKYRAD data are available for 1999-08-21 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsaskyrad20s: 20-second downwelling radiation data nsaskyrad60: 60-second downwelling radation data Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, aerosols, atqasuk, arm twp site c2, arctic, multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer and broadband pyranometer, pyrgeometers, aerosol optical depth, thickness, pyranometers, pyrheliometers, united states of america, north america, alaska, mark iv interferometer, arm, radiometers, climate change, polar, atmospheric radiation measurement project, earth science, mfrsr, department of energy, usa, nasa, solar irradiance, atmospheric emitted radiation, ultraviolet radiation, longwave radiation, barrow, arm twp site c1, global change, doe, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Dynamics of Ice Streams: A Physical Statistical Approach. ABSTRACT: Ice streams are believed to play a major role in determining the response of their parent ice sheet to climate change, and in determining global sea level by serving as regulators on the fresh water stored in the ice sheets. Ice streams are characterized by rapid, laterally confined flow which makes them uniquely identifiable within the body of the more slowly and more homogeneously flowing ice sheet. But while these characteristics enable the identification of ice streams, the processes which control ice-stream motion and evolution, and differences among ice streams in the polar regions, are only partially understood. Understanding the relative importance of lateral and basal drags, as well as the role of gradients in longitudinal stress, is essential for developing models for future evolution of the polar ice sheets. In this project, physical statistical models are used to explore the processes that control ice-stream flow, and to compare these processes between seemingly different ice-stream systems. In particular, the Northeast Ice Stream in Greenland will be investigated. Geophysical models lie at the core of the approach, but are embellished by statistical modeling of various components of variability. One important component comes from the uncertainty in observations on basal elevation, surface elevation, and surface velocity. In this project, new observational data collected using remote-sensing techniques are used. The various components, some of which are spatial, are combined hierarchically using Bayesian statistical methodology. All these are combined mathematically into a physical statistical model that yields the posterior distributions for basal and surface elevations, surface velocity fields, and stress fields, conditional on the data. Inference based on these distributions is carried out via Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques, to obtain estimates of these unknown fields along with uncertainty measures associated with them.. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, north atlantic ocean, greenland, stress field, north america, ice velocity, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, surface elevation, amd, us, basal elevation, topography, parca, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, program in arctic regional climate assessment, land surface, ice motion, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, glaciers, ice sheets, ocean, dhc-6, amd, atlantic ocean, dehavilland twin otter, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m (MOD10_L2) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution while all other fields are at 500 m resolution. Version 5 (V005), the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data available has two separate snow fields. The first field, snow cover, classifies each cloud-free land or inland water body pixel as snow-covered or snow-free, the second field, fractional snow cover, provides the percent of snow cover within each pixel for land and inland water bodies. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, eos, echo, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, river ice, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, north america, south america, fractional snow cover, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, antarctic, modis, polar, africa, nsidc daac, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, amd, esip, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: International Ice Patrol (IIP) Iceberg Sightings Database. ABSTRACT: The International Ice Patrol (IIP) collects information on iceberg activity in the North Atlantic. The IIP area of responsibility prior to 2006 was 40 to 52 degrees North latitude and 39 to 57 degrees West longitude. However, starting in 2006 and going forward, the IIP area of responsibility is 40 to 65 degrees North latitude and 39 to 57 degrees West longitude. Data files contain latitude and longitude of sighted icebergs. Iceberg size classes are coded, as well as date and time of sighting, last date sighted, number of days on plot within the observation area, and several fields pertaining to the iceberg's model-predicted location. The data set begins in 1960; annual updates occur in September or October. The format of the IIP data has changed over the years. NSIDC has generated a merged data format that contains the common fields for the entire period of record. Both the IIP format data and the NSIDC merged format data are available. Data are in ASCII text files.. KEYWORD: tiros oceanographic drifter, arctic ocean, icebergs, drifting ice, arctic, north atlantic ocean, usa, noaa, side-looking airborne radar, sea ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice buoy, polar, surface floats, drifters, current meter, drifting buoys, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, drilling platforms, international ice patrol, glaciers, ice sheets, radio detection and ranging, radar, ships, ocean, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, drifting buoy, slar, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Monthly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Long-term Soil Environment Monitoring in the Rock Creek Watershed, Denali Park, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Purpose: The Rock Creek Watershed was chosen as an area to study ecological response to natural or cultural change over time. To study long-term ecological change, baseline data is necessary to determine existing conditions. The objectives of the proposed study are to verify (1) that each soil map unit has its unique soil environment parameters which are determined by relief and vegetation types. Based on the research results of the Bonanza Creek LTER project, soil temperatures are found to play a key role in vegetation community expression. (2) Soil formation is the combined effect of interaction among biota (mainly vegetation), parent (geological) material, relief and climate over time. In a given map unit, the parent material and relief remain as independent factors. The vegetation is the variable upon natural climate change or anthropogenic impact. Such change would be reflected in the soil parameters, ie. soil serves as feedback to the environment changes. Abstract: The research focus is on the soil environment monitoring in the Rock Creek Watershed. Soil properties are the result of interactions among atmosphere, biosphere, and lithosphere, thus soil properties are also sensitive to environmental changes over time. Soils function not only as water-nutrient life media but also as redistributors and regulators of most of the important fluxes of matter and energy. Therefore, soil environmental changes affect the immediate carrying capacity of the land, through their influence on the vegetation and land-use types, run-off, evaporation, groundwater quality. In recent years, the arctic tundra has been identified as the major source of global warming gas emission, i.e. CO2 and methane (Oechel et al. 1993), yet there is only limited research on the subarctic region. The environmental concerns within a few meters above or below the ground surface constitute the microclimate of a soil map unit or landscape unit and it is to these conditions that most soil organisms must adapt. The microclimate (soil environmental factors) is characterized by the radiation, temperature, and moisture regimes of the near-surface atmospheric and soil layers (Dingman et al., 1980). These regimes are determined by, and are also feedbacks to, regional and global climate, as modified by local topography and through the interaction with the biosphere. The soil and its environmental function in the ecosystem are important to the productivity and diversity of the terrestrial and aquatic biota. In addition, each soil has a self-contained biota, and is an efficient trap or collection system for many atmospheric contaminants. A careful description and a set of quantitative measurements of the soil are essential to estimating the sensitivity or stability of the ecosystem. A carefully designed monitoring system of the soil environment is essential to evaluate the effects of ecosystem changes caused by regional and global climate change, and the anthropogenic changes as well. Geographic Description: Rock Creek Watershed in the Denali National Park and Preserve, AK. Denali National Park and Preserve is located in the central Alaska Range, approximately 210 km southwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. Methodology: Select monitoring sites that cover the four major vegetation communities and ecotone as specified in the Objectives section. A soil inventory and soil characterization sampling were conducted with cooperation from the USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Alaska State Office. Complete soil analysis were performed by NRCS - National Soil Survey Center according to national cooperative soil survey procedures and standards. The soil characterization data would serve as baseline data for soil parameters and also as reference to future changes in these parameters. Soil and soil environment parameters to be monitored: soil temperature, soil redox potential, soil water table and soil water potential, air temperature, instrumentation and monitoring - install micrometeorological stations which have sensors for monitoring air temperature, soil temperature, soil water matrix potential, relative humidity, wind, and solar radiation. Soil temperature will be measured hourly at 2.5, 5, 10, 20, and 50 cm depths (100 cm for deep soils) with thermocouple; soil matrix water potential will be measured daily at 5, 10, 20, 50, and 75 cm with synthetic soil moisture blocks; relative humidity, wind, air temperature, and solar radiation will also be monitored hourly and recorded with datalogger. - Reduction-oxidation potential (redox) potential was measured with Jensen's platinum-electrode at 2.5, 10, 20, and 50 cm depth from the soil surface weekly and more frequently after rains, and recorded with Jensen's ORP meter with reference electrode.. KEYWORD: continent, rock creek watershed, polar, denali national park and preserve, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, reclamation, revegetation, restoration, denali park, ak, soil monitoring, conservation, united states of america, monitor soil and soil environment parameters, north america, alaska, soil properties, geographic region, soils, long-term monitoring, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Ice Altimetry Data for Greenland and Antarctica from NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. ABSTRACT: The Oceans and Ice Branch of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center has processed satellite radar altimetry and aircraft laser altimetry over the continental ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica and surrounding sea ice to calculate surface elevations. The radar processing is currently being funded by the NASA Mission to Planet Earth Pathfinder Program. The data have been obtained from the Seasat, Geosat, ERS-1, ERS-2 and GFO satellites radar altimeter missions and from the Arctic Ice Mapping (AIM) mission which utilizes NASA's Airborne Topographic Mapper (ATM) laser altimeter. Radar Altimetry data from Seasat, Geosat, ERS-1, ERS-2 and GFO satellites is available for distribution upon request. Data from ENVISAT will be available in the near future. The following data products are available: Level 1: Waveform Data Records Orbital format waveform data records at the full data rate which contain the time, location altimeter return waveform, and retracking parameters. The altimeter waveform return gives a measure of the surface roughness on scales of sub-meter to tens of kilometers and indicates if surface penetration and or volume scattering is present. These results are used to investigate regional, interdecadal and interannual changes in the ice sheet and sea ice surface characteristics. The returns are also used to identify sea ice boundaries and extent. Level 2: Ice Data Records Orbital format ice data records at the full data rate which contain the time, precise location, altimeter height measurement, corrected precise surface elevation, atmospheric corrections, tidal values, retracking corrections, and AGC. These data are updated on-line as more precise orbits, corrections, and tide values become available. These data are mainly used by scientists who are trying to improve the algorithms to calculate the corrections or who require knowledge of what effect the corrections have on the data. Most researchers do not require this much detail and would be better served by the georeference data bases which contain the precise surface height after all corrections have been applied at the full data rate. Level 3: Geo-referenced Database Contain surface height measurements derived from altimetry data, ordered by geographic areas or "bins". Each data record contains the geodetic position, revolution number, surface elevation relative to a reference ellipsoid, and slope correction. This database contains detailed elevation information for the full-rate along track data. Level 4: Elevation Grids Gridded elevations are calculated from the data by a weighted fitting of a bi-quadratic function (bi-linear where data distribution is poor) on a polar stereographic projection with a nominal spacing of 5 km (ERS-1) 10 km (GEOSAT) and 20 km (Seasat). The dense topographic coverage is crucial for a variety of glaciological studies, from numerical modeling of the ice dynamics to monitoring of key glaciological features: ice drainage basins, ice-shelf grounding lines, ice divides, subglacial lakes, ice shelf fronts, and ice rises. Crossover Data The crossover data give interpolated elevations for different tracks at the same location including the corrections also interpolated to the crossover location. These data are best used for ice sheet change studies. [This summary was adapted from the GSFC Ice Altimetry WWW pages.]. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, altimeters, radar altimeters, continental ice sheet, ice surface elevation, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, seasat 1, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, noaa, nasa pathfinder, ers-2, gfo-1, greenland, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, north america, sea ice, ice altimetry, atm, ice elevation, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, topography, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, ra, geodetic satellite, geosat, ocean, topographical relief, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, airborne topographic mapper, ocean dynamics satellite, geographic region, geosat follow-on-1, 
TITLE: Arctic Leads Experiment (LEADEX) Model Forcing and Data for the GEWEX Cloud System Study Data Integration for Model Evaluation (GCSS-DIME). ABSTRACT: Ships and submarines have historically used leads, or sea ice fractures, to navigate Arctic waters. Scientists study leads to better understand their roles in arctic climatology and global climate change. Leads, particularly those exposing warm ocean water to cold arctic air, influence the energy balance at polar latitudes by contributing to the atmospheric heat flux. Because the poles act as heat sinks in the global energy balance, lead formation, evolution and distribution in the polar regions is important. The objective of the Arctic Leads ARI was to gain a better understanding of lead dynamics. As part of the project, the Arctic Leads ARI Data Set was created to encourage the assembly of an arctic leads climatology. This case study presents data from 1 March 1992 to 30 April 1992 and covers a region from 65N to 80N latitude and from 180W to 120W longitude. The data for this experiment is under Working Group 5 (Polar Clouds) of the GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) is to improve the parameterization of precipitating convective cloud systems in global climate models (GCMs) and numerical weather prediction models through an improved physical understanding of cloud system processes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, atmospheric temperature, surface radiative properties, leadex, arctic, cloud precipitable water, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, visible radiance, precipitation, ncep, thermal properties, ozone abundance, north america, noaa-12, alaska, gewex, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, humidity, international satellite cloud climatology project, infrared radiance, rawinsondes, ground-based observations, models, gewex cloud system study data integration for model evaluation, infrared wavelengths, ecmwf, relative humidity, surface pressure, wind speed, lockheed wp-3d orion, cloud optical depth, thickness, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, cloud forcing, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ships, visible wavelengths, leads ari, office of naval research arctic leads accelerated research initiative, ocean, canada, water vapor, global energy and water cycle experiment, arctic leads experiment, limited area models, single column models, geographic region, gcss-dime, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, altitude, sea level pressure, wp-3d orion, special sensor microwave, imager, clouds, air temperature, ozone, tovs, geopotential height, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, united states of america, precipitable water, isccp, cloud top pressure, radiance, surface winds, polar, reflectance, cloud top temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, land surface, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, ssm, i, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, esip, 
TITLE: Induction Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica,Year 2002. ABSTRACT: The pulsation magnetometer is to measure D and H components of geomagnetic induction variations. As a cooperation project with Newcastle University, Austrilia. The data is shared by boths sides. The data is originally recorded on hardisk and retrieved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, geomagnetism, ampte, irm three-axis fluxgate magnetometer, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, ampte, irm magnetometer, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER EDDY CORRELATION DATA. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets glaciers glcreddy.html" ABSTRACT: Data in this file contains results from the eddy correlation runs at the Canada meteorology station between December, 1994 and December, 1995.. KEYWORD: glaciers, atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, ice, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, amd, us, latent heat flux, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, sensible heat flux, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, correlation eddy, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: Canadian Monthly Climate Data (CMCD) CD-ROM and the 1961-1990 Normals (CCND) Diskette from the Meteorological Service of Canada. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Monthly Climate Data (CMCD) set of CD-ROM's contain monthly averages from over 6,000 sites across Canada for periods where a complete set of observations is available. Depending on the local observing program, there are up to 134 different climate parameters for each site. This set of CD-ROM's also contains the 1961-1990 Canadian Climate Normals (CCND), which are also available on 7 sets of diskettes: The North, British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Ontario, Quebec, and the Atlantic Provinces. The normals, as in the CMCD data, contain up to 134 different climate parameters for each site, depending on the local observing program. Normals have been calculated for over 1,000 sites with at least 20 years of record in the 1961-1990 period. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, precipitation rate, freezing rain, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, precipitation anomalies, none, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, idn_node gsfc, aes, ec, humidity, rain, surface pressure, climate data, surface, nova scotia, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, canada, water vapor, snow, new brunswick, ccnd, climatology, monthly data, geographic region, normals, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, sea level pressure, air temperature, nunavut, northwest territories, hydrometeors, saskatchewan, sleet, surface winds, digital data, polar, cd-rom, cmcd, earth science, ceos, hail, liquid water equivalent, quebec, alberta, atmospheric pressure, prince edward island, dew point temperature, statistics, 
TITLE: Eddy Flux Data, Alaska North Slope, 1994-1996. ABSTRACT: Eddy flux data were recorded at Happy Valley, Sagwon, and Toolik Lake from 1994 to 1996. An entire suite of meteorological parameters were recorded, including atmospheric temperature, pressure, mass flux of carbon and water vapor, sensible heat, latent heat, humidity, wind speed and direction, soil temperature, net radiation and ground heat flux.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, saywon, opp9318532, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss007, north america, alaska, net radiation, humidity, north slope, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, happy valley, ground-based observations, sensible heat, surface air temperature, wind speed, arctic system science data coordination center, wind direction, office of polar programs, national science foundation, pressure, toolik lake, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, opp-9318532, water vapor, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, nsf, continent, air temperature, ground heat flux, carbon flux, usa, nsf, united states of america, heat flux, soils, latent heat, surface winds, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Monthly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Engineering-geocryological Investigations, Zapolyarnoye-Urengoy, Western Siberia, Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of data from approximately 300 engineering-geocryological boreholes, of approximate 12 m depth. The following parameters were collected for each borehole: ground type, cryotextures, soil moisture every 0.5 m, dry density every 0.5 to 1 m, and temperature every 1 m.. KEYWORD: continent, soil moisture, water content, cryopedology, ggd, soil structure, geocryology, arctic, usa, noaa, geology, paleoclimate, boreholes, united states of america, thermal properties, russia, western siberian arctic, pipelines zapolayarnoye-urengoy, north america, alaska, soil temperature, soils, land records, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, engineering, eastern europe, frozen ground, soil properties, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER ICE TEMPERATURES. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets glaciers glthrmst.html"] ABSTRACT: Ice temperature data comes from 10 thermistors set up on the Canada Glacier since the '94-'95 Antarctic field season. In order to determine how ice temperature varies with depth below the surface as well as location within a given depth, two sets of temperatures were measured at depths of 5, 10, 20, 30, and 50 cm below the surface.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, lter, arctic, ice temperature, ice, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, glacier, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, antarctica, snow, ice temperature, thermistor, glaciers, ice sheets, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: E. Census Division and Census Subdivision Reference Maps, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The set of Census Division and Census Subdivision Reference Maps covers all of Canada, by province or territory. The maps show the boundaries, names and codes of census divisions (such as counties and regional districts) and census subdivisions (such as cities, towns, villages, other local municipal entities, townships and Indian reserves). The maps also show the boundaries of census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations. There are 22 maps that vary in scale (ranging from 1:310,000 to 1:3,500,000) and size, the maximum dimensions being approximately 145 cm by 99 cm (57 inches by 39 inches). The maps have the same general look as in 1996. A reference guide is available (92F0149GIE). Note: The complete set of CD CSD maps is available in the Standard Geographical Classification Manual, Volume II (Catalogue No. 12-572-XPB). This publication also includes three maps of Canada at the 1:10,000,000 scale, one showing census divisions, one showing economic regions and census divisions, and one showing point locations of census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations. For free Internet usage the catalogue number is: 92F0149XIB01000 Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0149XCB01000 Catalogue number for print-on-demand is: 92F0149XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.Census Division and Census Subdivision Reference maps inform users of boundaries, names and codes throughout Canada. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They aren't intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, geographical classification, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, handbooks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, census divisions, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 15th CHINARE in 1998-1999. ABSTRACT: 46 52GG planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Airborne X- and C-band SAR Images of Sea Ice in the Barents Sea. ABSTRACT: SIZEX-89 was an official pre-launch ERS-1 program where the main objectives were to perform ERS-1 type sensors signature studies of different ice types in order to develop SAR algorithms for ice variables such as ice types, ice concentrations and ice kinematics. SIZEX-89 was a multidisciplinary, international winter experiment carried out in the Barents and the Greenland Seas during February and March 1989. During the experiment, 130 CCT tapes of airborne X- and C-band SAR data were obtained by the CCRS CV-580 in the Barents Sea, in February 1989. Remote Sensing, oceanographical, ocean acoustical, meteorological and sea ice data were collected. Several platforms were used: one ice-strengthened vessel (R V Polarbjorn), one open ocean ship (R V Hakon Mosby), helicopter, drifting buoys, bottom-moored buoys, aircraft and satellites (NOAA, DMSP). In addition to data collection, an ice-forecasting model was run operationally to predict ice motion, ice thickness and ice concentration. The integrated data set obtained in SIZEX-89 is a pilot data set suitable to develop and improve methods for ice monitoring and prediction.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sea ice concentration, arctic, water temperature, ice-edge processes, winter ice, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, seasonal ice zone experiment, ocean temperature, idn_node gsfc, nersc, sizex, ice thickness, ice edges, ice types, sea ice, ice-edge, barents sea, polar, sar, earth science, cryosphere, idn_node esrin, usa, nasa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ccrs cv-580, synthetic aperture radar, water depth, ocean, ice depth, thickness, ice compactness, oceans, geographic region, ice concentrations, 
TITLE: Offshore and Coastal Canadian Geophysical Records Holdings - Physical Archive Database. ABSTRACT: This dataset is a record inventory management system for the archiving of geological and geophysical data (e.g. seismics, multibeam, bathymetry, gravity, magnetics and seabed videos) as part of the holdings at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. The archive includes logbooks, magnetic reel-to-reel digital tapes, paper records, analog data, videos, microfilm, microfiche and photographs collected as part of research cruises by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic).This dataset is maintained for purposes of curation and the ability to access (for geoscientific research) geophysical data archived at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: 3.5 khz, vhs, arctic ocean, manitoba, arctic, offshore east, southern asia, marine geophysics, sea surface, record inventory management system, global land, north america, ontario, global ocean, international, offshore north, north pacific ocean, southeastern asia, nova scotia, sidescan, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, airgun, new brunswick, bathymetry, oceans, seismics, geographic region, offshore eastern canada, indian ocean, continent, gcmd, miscellaneous, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, global, marine, marine geology, bedrock, gulf of st. lawrence, vertical location, polar, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, land surface, beaufort sea, quebec, huntec, alberta, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Mixed Layer Experiment 1989 (MLML89)- Temperaturey Data. ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland. Data is available from a buoy fielded from April 13-June 10, 1989. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Temperature Data from this experiment include: 1410 records Sample Rate: 3600 seconds (60 minute) 16 Depth Bins Time series plot is plot available in gif or PostScript. Instruments include: Multi-Variable Moored System, Brancker Temperature recorder, and Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml89 mlml89temp.html". KEYWORD: north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, water velocity data sensors, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes solar flux and net radiation measurements as recorded by an Eppley precision spectral pyranometer and Eppley precision infrared radiometer (pyrgeometer), respectively. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_radn.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_radn_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_radn_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, lter, arctic, solar flux, outgoing shortwave radiation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, incoming longwave radiation, antarctica, longwave radiation, infrared radiometers, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: Annual Thaw Depths in Illisarvik, Northwest Territories. ABSTRACT: Thaw-depth data were collected annually in August from 21 August 1979 to 18 August 1999, from 400-m, 600-m, and tundra transects at Illisarvik lake, Richards Island, Northwest Territories, Canada. Coordinates are 69 deg 30 min N, 134 deg 32 min W. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format, and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, continent, polar, active layer, richards island, ggd, thaw-depth, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, freeze, thaw, usa, noaa, seasonally frozen ground, canada, north america, frozen ground, richards island, nwt, canada, illisarvik lake, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: W. Postal Codes Conversion File, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The PCCF is available as standard packages for Canada, the provinces and territories, census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and some census agglomerations (CAs). It consists of a flat file ASCII. A reference guide is included. Catalogue number: 92F0153XCB. The Postal Code Conversion File (PCCF) is updated with new postal codes on a semi-annual basis and is available in January and July. Clients must purchase the Postal Code Conversion File at the initial price; then subsequent updated files (92F0153UCB) may be purchased at the update or subscription rate. The update rate is a flat rate that in most cases is much lower than the initial purchase price. An additional 25% discount on updates is given to PCCF update subscribers. The subscription requires clients to pay in advance for at least one updated file per year until the PCCF reflecting the geography of the next Census is released. The PCCF updates are available as standard packages for Canada and the provinces and territories. A reference guide is included. Catalogue number for PCCF updates: 92F0153UCE ...for additional information visit our organization web site.The Postal Code Conversion File (PCCF) provides a link between six-character postal code and standard 2001 Census geographic areas (such as dissemination areas, municipalities, census tracts). It also provides the x,y (latitude longitude) coordinates for a point representing the approximate location of the postal code to support mapping. Fees - Canada coverage $9,000. PCCF are available for individual provinces and territories , priced from $200 to $3,500. PCCF are also available for individual CMAs and CAs: priced from $200 to 1,400. Contact the nearest Statistics Canada regional office for more information.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, postal codes, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, cartography, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, census, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic units, 
TITLE: Ozone sounding data at Marambio from year 1988 onwards. ABSTRACT: High resolution ozone sounding data at Marambio (64S, 56W), Antarctica from 1988 onwards produced by Argentinean (Servicio Meteorologico Nacional) and Finnish (Finnish Meteorological Institute) co-operation. See "http:  www.fmi.fi research_polar polar_5.html" for more details and instructions how to obtain the data.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, altitude, atmospheric temperature, boundary layer winds, arctic, air temperature, ozone, amd, fi, marambio, tropospheric ozone, atmospheric pressure measurements, tropopause, humidity, air quality, surface winds, polar, surface air temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, antarctica, station height, temperature profiles, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, ozone soundings, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Drifting Buoy Data for the Global Ocean; Position, Surface Pressure, and Surface Subsurface Temperature. ABSTRACT: Drifting Buoy (DRIBU) data have been gathered from a number of different sensors mounted on drifting buoys. Drifting buoy data includes the buoy position, date, time and, in most cases, includes many variables such as surface and subsurface water temperature, air pressure, air temperature, wind speed and wind direction. MEDS is the world data centre for drifting buoys (Responsible National Oceanographic Data Centre - RNODC). As part of its role, MEDS acquires, processes, quality controls and archives real-time drifting buoy messages reporting over the Global Telecommunications System (GTS) as well as delayed mode data acquired from other sources. Over 200,000 new records are captured monthly from the GTS. MEDS has collected and archived over 22 million real-time records from all over the world between 1978 and the present. These include data from both oceanographic and and meteorological buoys. These data are available on computer magnetic tape in GF-3 format, floppy disk or diskette. Data retrieval can be by area, time period or buoy number. Sea surface temperature (SST), sea level pressure (SLP), sea level tendency and sub-surface temperature are available, as well as buoy position.To provide a global repository for drifting buoy data that may be accessed by those interested. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, buoys, sea surface, northern hemisphere, physical oceanography, idn_node gsfc, dribu, thermometers, south atlantic ocean, eastern hemisphere, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, amd, ca, surface floats, drifters, drifting buoys, wind speed, direction, subsurface floats, drifters, canada, cgdi, ocean, south pacific ocean, southern hemisphere, oceans, amd, geographic region, western hemisphere, indian ocean, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, global, equatorial, woce-svp, global drifter program, surface winds, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, woce, toga, atmospheric pressure, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic Micro-Pulse Lidar Measurement. ABSTRACT: Micro-pulse lidar (MPL, NASA upgraded SESI model) placed at AWIPEV Station (at Rabben Station until 4 June 2003) in Ny-Alesund, Svalbard acquires backscatter profiles on a 24-hour operation basis. Laser wavelength: 523.5 nm, Maximum height: 60 km, Range resolution: 30 m, Time resolution: 1 min, Pointing direction: 45 deg slant at Rabben and vertical at AWIPEV. Processed data (Level 1.0) and their quick look images are available from NASA MPLNET website at http:  mplnet.gsfc.nasa.gov .. KEYWORD: polar, svalbard and jan mayen, lidar backscatter, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, mpl, ceos, usa, nasa, ipy, ocean, ny-alesund, svalbard, international polar year, spectral, engineering, micropulse lidar, atlantic ocean, lidar, geographic region, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for the Akshiirak, Kaindi, and Uchchat River Basins, Kyrgyzstan. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for river basins Akshiirak, Kaindi, and Uchchat derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, asia, earth science, cryosphere, kyrgyzstan, southcentral asia, glaciers, ice sheets, ipy, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, 
TITLE: Dielectric Profiling of Ice Cores. ABSTRACT: Dielectric profiles of a series of ice cores taken along the Norwegian-U.S. IPY traverse of East Antarctica, from Troll Station to the South Pole. The ice cores were drilled up to 90 meters deep. A DEP device is used to measure dielectic permittivity and electric conductivity along the length of the cores. Values are measured at intervals of 5 mm, thus enabling a high-resolution determination of electrical properties. Electrical properties are largely influenced by the total salt content as well as the acidity of the ice. In high accumulation areas annual-layer counting is possible, but in low accumulation areas a chronology based on comparison of DEP records with each other is required. Volcanic layers in Antarctica are well documented and have been used to date ice cores. In addition, DEP data are necessary for the calibration of shallow radar data and the conversion of two-way signal travel time to depth. Thus, our DEP measurements will aid in the interpretation of GPR data as well as in dating the ice cores. Sufficiently dated ice cores and radar layers are crucial for the determination of accumulation rates.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dronning maud land, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, ice core dating, amd, no, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, arctic, no, no-us-traverse, trans-antarctic scientific traverses expeditions & ice divide of east antarctica, ipy, taste-idea, amd, geographic region, norwegian-u.s. scientific traverse of east antarctica, 
TITLE: Nathaniel B. Palmer 0304B underway geophysics. ABSTRACT: This data set contains underway geophysical data collected on cruise 0304B of the Nathaniel B. Palmer. This cruise went from Barrow, Alaska to Lyttelton, New Zealand via Dutch Harbor, Alaska, Honolulu, Hawaii and Napier, New Zealand. Data sets collected included the following: swath bathymetry (archived at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory), gravity and magnetics (archived at the National Geophysical Data Center), ODEC Bathy2000 3.5 kHz echo sounder with subbottom penetration (currently no archive available), and limited multichannel seismic data collected as part of equipment testing. The main scientific objectives of the cruise were as follows: to collect data on the Cenozoic marine magnetic anomalies and seafloor spreading fabric of the Pacific plate south of the Aleutian trench; to acquire detailed bathymetry to fill in some unsurveyed regions around the Hawaiian islands; to study the character of fracture zones south of Hawaii; to survey some lines across the Osbourn Trough, a dead spreading center in the southwest Pacific Ocean, near the Tonga Trench; to survey a line parallel to, and outboard of, the Kermadec trench, in order to study the strength of the Pacific plate in the subduction zone; and to survey an area of gas hydrates east of the North Island of New Zealand. Observations of the seafloor corresponding to the Cretaceous Normal Superchron made along various parts of the track will also contribute to an ongoing study of variations in the intensity of the Earth's magnetic field during the Cretaceous Normal Superchron.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, solid earth, arctic ocean, marine geophysics, single-channel seismic reflection, usa, noaa, multi-channel seismic reflection, seismic profile, marine magnetics, north pacific ocean, magnetic anomalies, lacoste-romberg gravity meter, osbourne trough, bathymetry, seafloor topography, simrad em120, ocean, south pacific ocean, bathymetry, swath bathymetry, oceans, chukchi sea, paleo start date 120 ma, msbs, cenozoic, seismology, mesozoic, multibeam swath bathymetry system, airgun arrays, earth science information partners program, nuclear precession magnetometer, r, v nathaniel b. palmer, seafloor topography, kermadec trench, paleo stop date 50 ma, lrgm, hawaii, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, odec bathy2000, phanerozoic, pacific, nathaniel b. palmer, acoustic doppler current profiler, marine gravity field, gravity, seismic reflection profilers, cretaceous, esip, central pacific ocean, r, v nbp, adcp, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: U.S. Navy Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center (FNMOC)'s Navy Operational Global Atmospheric Prediction System (NOGAPS). ABSTRACT: The Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center (FNMOC) data contains atmospheric and oceanographic parameters based on the 12-hour forecasts by the Hemispheric Primitive Equation Model and the Navy Operational Global Atmospheric Prediction System (NOGAPS). The Primitive Equation Model was used prior to August 1982. The operational NOGAPS (4.0) model executes several times each 00 UTC and 12 UTC, including a six day forecast completing 5.5 hours past the synoptic time. NOGAPS outputs nearly 25,000 grids per day. The NOGAPS analysis is performed on the Gaussian grid of the global spectral model on the 16 standard pressure levels from 1000 to 10 hPa. The maximum number of observations per volume is 600. NOGAPS product information and weather maps (standard 1 degree averaged resolution) are available at (under FNMOC WXMAP Global Areas NGP Model) : "https:  www.fnmoc.navy.mil PUBLIC ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, weather prediction, mid-latitude, arctic, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, south america, humidity, model, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, albedo, models, africa, relative humidity, solar radiation, sensible heat flux, australia, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, oceans, atmospheric radiation, continent, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, surface ice concentration, global, air temperature, equatorial, geopotential height, europe, surface winds, gridded data, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, dods, tropics, planetary boundary layer height, tropical indian ocean, esip, ocean surface winds, isotachs, surface snow depth, distributed oceanographic data system, godae, upper level winds, precipitation amount, tropical west pacific, atmospheric temperature, navy, thickness, north america, dew point, vertical velocity, wind stress, geopotential heights, pressure, antarctica, ocean, water vapor, south pacific ocean, amd, pbl, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, altitude, clouds, new zealand, earth science information partners program, winds, daily data, heat flux, amd, us, global ocean data assimilation experiment, tropical east pacific, vorticity, cloud types, weather forecast models, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, relative vorticity, usa, nasa, tropical atlantic, ocean heat budget, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: ARM North Slope Alaska, Surface Meteorology. ABSTRACT: The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) Program is the largest global change research program supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ARM scientists focus on obtaining field measurements and developing models to better understand the processes that control solar and thermal infrared radiative transfer in the atmosphere (especially in clouds) and at the earth's surface. The URL for the ARM Data Archive is "http:  www.archive.arm.gov ". The URL for general information about the ARM program is "http:  www.arm.gov ". The data stored by the ARM Archive includes numerous parameters about radiative flux, meteorology, water vapor and clouds. The North Slope of Alaska Adjacent Arctic Ocean (NSA AAO) site is providing data about cloud and radiative processes at high latitudes. These data are being used to refine models and parameterizations as they relate to the Arctic. The NSA AAO site is centered at Barrow and extends to the south (to the vicinity of Atqasuk), west (to the vicinity of Wainwright), and east (to Oliktok). Surface meteorology data at Barrow and Atqasuk are collected using many specialized instruments. Detailed information on each instrument is available at "http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The following list contains the instrumentation used for surface meteorology and the data available for the Barrow and Atqasuk sites. Barrow Meteorology Station (BMET). Surface meteorology at Barrow is obtained by using mainly conventional in situ sensors on the Barrow Meteorology station (BMET). For complete information on the BMET, see http:  www.arm.gov instruments . The BMET station directly measures wind speed, wind direction, air temperature, and relative humidity at 2 m, 10 m, 20 m, and 40 m. Vector-averaged wind speeds, vector-averaged wind directions, dew points, and vapor pressures are computed from these primary measurements. Periodically, 2 m air and dew point temperatures are measured using a chilled-mirror hygrometer. Barometric pressure, visibility, and precipitation at the surface are also directly measured. Meterological data at Barrow are available from 1998-03-20 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsacmhC1: chilled mirror humidity nsamettwrC1: surface meteorological measurements and statistics at four tower levels nsaorgC1: optical rain gauge measurements: precipitation rate and accumulation nsapwsC1: present weather sensor measurements of visibility and precipitation. Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future. Surface Meterological Station (SMET). Surface meteorology at Atqasuk is obtained by using a 10-m tower and nearby SMET. For complete information on the SMET, see "http:  www.arm.gov instruments ". The SMET stations directly measure: (1) wind speed at 10 m, (2) wind direction at 10 m, (3) air temperature at 2 m, (4) relative humidity at 2 m, (5) barometric pressure at 1 m, and (6) precipitation. Meterological data at Atqasuk are available from 2001-03-31 to present. ARM data streams are coded as follows: nsacmhC2: chilled mirror humidity nsamettiptwrC2: surface meteorological data at 6-m and 2-m heights nsapwsC2: present weather sensor measurements of visibility and precipitation nsasnodepC2: snow depth Additional data streams or value added products may be added in the future.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, atqasuk, arm nsa site c2, precipitation, united states of america, wind vanes, north america, alaska, humidity, arm, air quality, climate change, barrow, arm nsa site c1, surface winds, polar, rain, surface pressure, visibility, org, surface air temperature, atmospheric radiation measurement project, earth science, department of energy, temperature probes, anemometers, usa, nasa, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, optical rain gauge, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, snow, global change, hygrometers, doe, humidity sensors, dry bulb thermometers, geographic region, dewpoint hydrometers, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Monthly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Cariaco Basin 2000 Deglacial 14C and Grey Scale Data. ABSTRACT: This data set contains Cariaco Basin 2000 Deglacial 14C and Grey Scale Data. Cariaco2000_pc56_greyscale.txt is updated from earlier published data, with a new age model. Cariaco2000_pc58_14C.txt are new 14C data based on sampling of high deposition rate core PL07-58PC, and are distinct from previously published 14C data from core PL07-56PC. The calendar ages are based on an updated varve chronology from core PL07-58PC, anchored to tree rings. The grey scale data are from core PL07-56PC. The grey scale calendar chronology is based from 0-9 ka on 14C ages calibrated using CALIB 4, and based from 9-14.8 ka on the updated varve chronology.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, cariaco basin, holocene, arctic, north atlantic ocean, deglacial, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, paleo stop date 426 ybp, paleo start date 14952 ybp, 14c, polar, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, ocean, radiocarbon, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 data on the Zhongshan station,Antarctic,Year 1997. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and saved on CDR disks eventually.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, digisondes, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: GLDAS Noah Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 0.25 x 0.25 degree Subsetted V001 (GLDAS_NOAH025SUBP_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Noah 2.7.1 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 0.25 degree resolution and range from 2000 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Noah model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 001 Surface pressure Pa 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 085 Average layer soil temperature K 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^2 111 Net shortwave radiation W m^2 112 Net longwave radiation W m^2 121 Latent heat flux W m^2 122 Sensible heat flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average surface temperature K 155 Ground heat flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 4 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) and Soil Temperature (PDS 085) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: SCICEX Hydrographic Data, 1997 and 1998. ABSTRACT: The Scientific Ice Expeditions (SCICEX) Program was a series of five multidisciplinary scientific cruises that utilized US Navy operational submarines as platforms for sampling the Arctic Ocean. The program's numerous principal investigators worked towards the overarching goal of characterizing the upper layers of the Arctic Ocean as completely as possible. This data set includes hydrographic data obtained during the 1997 and 1998 (third and fourth) SCICEX cruises, aboard the USS Archerfish and the USS Hawkbill, respectively. Water column profile data were collected using a submarine-launched conductivity, temperature, and depth (CTD) probe. Probe depths were computed based on a known fall rate, temperature (T) and conductivity values were measured by probe sensors, and salinity was computed from these values. Derived variables, including pressure (calculated from depth and latitude), potential temperature, sigma-t (a representation of density), and sigma-theta (sigma-t calculated with potential temperature), are also included. Profile data were generally collected to a depth of 1000 m at 1-m depth intervals, with variable horizontal distance between the profiles. Data were collected between September 3 and October 2, 1997, and between August 1 and September 2, 1998, along extensive transects within the Arctic Ocean.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, nansen basin, arctic, water temperature, opp-9801379, ocean water temperature measurements, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, conductivity, temperature, depth, scientific ice expeditions, ctd, conductivity, scientific ice expeditions program, xctd probes, ocean chemistry, chuckchi sea, arctic system science data coordination center, chuckchi cap, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss064, profile data, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, opp9801379, amundsen basin, nsf, opp, nsf, lomonosov ridge, ocean water conductivity measurements, united states navy, expendable ctd profiles, submarines, canada basin, usa, nsf, submarine, scicex program, depth probes, ocean water salinity measurements, polar, salinity, makarov basin, arctic ocean basin, earth science, ceos, adcc, laptev sea, national science foundation, scicex, onr grant n00014-96-1-0855, 
TITLE: The Measured Temperature Regime of the Collins Ice Cap on King George Island in West Antarctica. ABSTRACT: Ice temperature was measured with thermistors (precision of 0.1 Celcius degree) at seven borehole sites along the principal ridge of the Collins Ice Cap in West Antarctica between December 13, 1991 and November 8, 1992. The elevation difference between two adjacent boreholes is about 100m. Most boreholes with thermistors are more than 25m in depth. Continuous temperature measurements were conducted through nearly half a year at several boreholes in lower elevations.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, arctic, ice temperature, paleoclimate, west antarctica, boreholes, amd, cn, sea ice, snow, ice, land records, ground-based observations, polar, collins ice cap, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, temperature regime, antarctica, snow, ice temperature, thermistor, glaciers, ice sheets, king george island, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History - Marine Birds, Mammals, and Fishes Data. ABSTRACT: This is the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History database for marine organisms, including birds, mammals, and fishes. It contains mostly Nova Scotia material but there is also representation from New Brunswick, Newfoundland, the Northwest Territories, and other parts of North America. The ichthyology collection is the most extensive with over 2800 specimens. Temporally, specimens were collected from 1873 to 2002.The data set was developed from the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History (NSMNH) - Museum Information Management System (MIMS) as an electronic catalogue of specimen and collecting information. Spatial Data Organization Information - Direct Spatial Reference: point. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, epipelagic fish, fish data, gomodp, mid-latitude, greenland bank, arctic, salmonids, striped bass, grand bank, sable island, demersal habitat, bottom-feeding fish, northern hemisphere, seals, north america, western nova scotia, bottom fish, groundfish, aquatic ecosystems, western bank, sable island bank, whales, species composition, atlantic provinces, gulf of maine, pelagic habitat, nova scotia, grand banks, marshes, demersal fish, terrestrial ecosystems, bay of fundy, biosphere, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, canadian regions, animals, vertebrates, waterfowl, canada, cgdi, benthic habitat, mammals, ocean, canada, saline lakes, bays, new brunswick, oceans, scotian shelf, geographic region, rays, western hemisphere, benthicfish, fish species composition, continent, newfoundland and labrador, tuna, gcmd, finfish, abundance, pelagic fish, eastern nova scotia, north atlantic ocean, lahave bank, sea floor, emerald bank, georges bank, distribution, northwest territories, wetlands, emerald gully, fish species abundance, lakes, gulf of st. lawrence, coastal habitat, shark, vertical location, polar, mesopelagic fish abundance and biomass, marine mammals, earth science, flounder, ceos, gulfs, ducks, porpoises, emerald basin, seabirds, sunfish, fish, cod, atlantic ocean, estuarine habitat, middle bank, 
TITLE: Sviny S1 mooring. ABSTRACT: Mooring observing current, temperature, salinity and pressure. The mooring is named S1 in the Sviny section and positioned at 62o 49.33 N, 4o 17.41 E. The depth is 500m and the dataset contains hourly records (raw data) from 100m and 300m. Time is specified in UTC.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, sea_water_pressure, salinity, sea_water_speed, sea_water_temperature, direction_of_sea_water_velocity, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, water pressure, ocean temperature, pressure, arctic, no, current, ipy, ocean, nordic seas, temperature, oceans, sea_water_salinity, ocean pressure, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Global Land Use Data Sets. ABSTRACT: Information on soils, vegetation types, cultivated areas, wetlands and inundated areal fraction at 1- x 1-degree resolution for the Earth are available. Global FAO soil units data distinguish 27 soil types. The vegetation data set gives the global distribution of 32 vegetation types based on the UNESCO classification system. The cultivation data set describes the global distribution of cultivation intensity, distinguishing 5 classes. The wetlands data set gives the global distribution of wetlands, distinguishing 5 classes. These 5 wetlands classes were collapsed from 12 original classes that defined worldwide wetland ecosystems on the basis of environmental characteristics governing methane emissions. The inundated areal fraction data set is the global distribution of inundated areal fraction of 1-degree cells. These data can be combined with the wetlands data to calculate global wetland area.. KEYWORD: inundation, nsidc, nsf, world-wide wetland ecosystems, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, global, usa, noaa, arcss054, wetlands, usa, nsf, visual observations, aquatic ecosystems, inundated areal fraction, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, soil classification, cultivation intensity, ground-based observations, vegetation index, polar, tems, gtos, methane emissions, arctic system science data coordination center, vegetation types, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, global wetland area, adcc, surface water, arcss059, national science foundation, cultivated areas, geographic region, land use classes, nsf, opp, g3os, 
TITLE: National Frameworks Administrative Boundaries, Canada. ABSTRACT: The GeoAccess Division of the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing undertook a project to restructure, improve and generalize the VMAP level 0 data for use as national base map compatible with a global vector mapping base. To date only the boundary and hydrology layers have been edited. As these 2 layers have evolved from their original state they can no longer be referred to as part of the vmap level 0 revision 4 collection and therefore are available under the National Framworks Data link on GeoGratis. Reliable Framework Data for the practical use of geospatial data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, administrative boundaries, basemap data, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 2 Local Area Coverage (LAC) Geophysical Ocean Sea Surface Temperature (SST) Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Level-2 Local Area Coverage (LAC) product is generated from a corresponding Level-1B product. The main data contents of the product are the geophysical values for each pixel, derived from the Level-1B radiances by applying the atmospheric corrections, and SST retrieval algorithms. Each Level-2 product corresponds exactly in geographical coverage (scan-line and pixel extent) to that of its parent Level-1B product and is stored in one physical HDF file. The resolution is the same as the corresponding level 1B file (1 km). The standard SST product contains: SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime and nighttime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) In addition, 32 flags are associated with each pixel indicating if any algorithm failures or warning conditions occurred for that pixel. Detailed information on the Level-2 format specifications can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-2_Data_Products.pdf Level-2 processing is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 (MSl12) code, which is developed and maintained by the OBPG. The algorithms and logic were originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  . Full documentation, updated code source, sensor files, and output product descriptions can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MSL12 . For MODIS, the Level-1B file and the GEO file for each 5-minute granule are input to MSl12. The Level-2 processing also makes use of reference SST information from ancillary sources. In the near real-time (NRT) stream, the previous weeks Reynolds SST data are used. The NRT Quick Look products are then immediately available on the web browser and in the rolling FTP archive within 6-10 hours of observation. When the definitive attitude and orbit and coincident Reynolds SST data are received several days later, they are used in the Refined-processing stream and the Level-2 products are regenerated. Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 2 Data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl?sen=am Aqua MODIS Level-2 daytime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Day  Aqua MODIS Level-2 nighttime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Night . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Brightness Temperature images processed and delivered in near-real time from the AVHRR and ATSR instruments at Tromso Satellite Station. ABSTRACT: Under an ESA contract TSS receives global ATSR data from the ERS-1 satellite. This is a demonstration project where data is processed in Tromso and the products are distributed directly to the end user. The UK Met. Office is one of the users having received ATSR data products from TSS. This near real-time service is set up using Internet for transmission of the products. The operational service aquires an average of 10 ERS-1 passes a day, every day throughout the year. Through this near real-time demonstration project, the TSS infrastructure has proven to be very well suited for supporting an operational service with useful and necessary information. A full resolution ATSR data product chain has also been implemented very recently. TSS can now offer in near-real time full resolution (1 km) brightness and sea surface temperature products. The coverage is global for the ATSR, and for the AVHRR the coverage is that of TSS (i.e. Europe).. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, noaa poes, vegetation, infrared imagery, ocean temperature, global, european remote sensing satellite-2, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, oceonagraphy, ers-1, ers-2, esa, esrin, spectral, engineering, avhrr, europe, land cover, microwave, sea surface temperature, polar, tems, gtos, infrared wavelengths, along track scanning radiometer and microwave sounder, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, northern europe, biosphere, land resources, idn_node, esrin, brightness temperature, visible wavelengths, brightness, ocean, oceans, gosic, atlantic ocean, geographic region, g3os, atsr, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Bathymetry of the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The goal of this project is to develop a digital database that contains all available bathymetric data north of 64 degrees North, for use by mapmakers, researchers, and others whose work requires a detailed and accurate knowledge of the depth and the shape of the Arctic seafloor.Initiated in 1997, this undertaking has so far engaged the volunteer efforts of investigators who are affiliated with eleven institutions in eight countries: Canada, Denmark, Germany, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden, and the USA. The activity has also been endorsed and or supported financially by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), the International Arctic Science Committee (IASC), the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO), the US Office of Naval Research (ONR), and the US National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC).Version 1.0 of the IBCAO Grid is available for dowloading, along with bathymetric contours in digital vector form and an updated version of the Map that is suitable for plotting. We'd appreciate feedback on how to improve these products, along with information that would help us obtain new data sets for enhancing the IBCAO database.The information used in the construction of this database and map consist of: historic and recent under-ice soundings collected by submarines of the United States and the United Kingdom; historic and recent observations collected by icebreakers and drifting ice stations; and information portrayed in published navigation and compilation charts. The locations of these data sets are shown in separate source distribution maps, while data contributors and relevant references are listed in this legend under "Data Contributions".Although extensive, in some areas the database of digital trackline and spot observations contained critical gaps that had to be augmented with information that was only available on paper maps and charts. In the central Arctic Ocean, original observations were augmented with contour information derived from a map published by the Russian Federation Navy. Similarly, contours extracted from maps published by the Geological Society of America were used in Bering Strait and in the Barents and Kara Seas. On the continental shelf adjacent to Siberia, soundings were extracted from a suite of navigational charts published by the Russian Federation Navy, and used to develop contours. Bathymetry in the Gulf of Bothnia was derived from a compilation by Seifert and Kayser. Contours were extracted from the GEBCO Digital Atlas (GDA) to supplement the database in the southern Norwegian-Greenland Seas, in Baffin Bay, and in some areas of the Canadian Arctic.Land relief was derived from the USGS GTOPO30 topographic model, with the exception of Greenland, where the model developed by the Danish National Survey and Cadastre (KMS) was used, and Alaska, where release 1.1 of the GLOBE topographic model was used Coastline definition was provided by the World Vector Shoreline (WVS) in all areas except Greenland and northern Ellesmere Island, where an updated coastline was available from KMS.Original soundings were corrected for sound velocity using Carter's Tables, or CTD (Conductivity, Temperature and Depth) profiles where available. Subsequently, all data (digitized isobaths; land and marine relief grids; point, profile and swath observations; and vector shorelines) were imported into Intergraph's Geomedia Professional, with projection parameters set to polar stereographic on the WGS 84 ellipsoid, and with true scale at 75i?? N. Outliers, cross-track errors, and the fit between isobaths and original observation data were checked. Suspicious soundings were removed and, where contours showed major discrepancies with soundings, the contours were adjusted manually to agree with trackline data.After inspection all data sets were exported to an XYZ coordinate system for further manipulation with GMT (Generic Mapping Tools) public domain software. Initially, the data sets were preprocessed with the GMT block-median filter, after which they were gridded at a cell size of 2.5 x 2.5 km by fitting a surface of continuous curvature to all points with a tension parameter set to 0.35. The resulting grid was exported to Intergraph's MGE Terrain Analyst (MTA) for detailed inspection, and for the identification of discrepancies that had to be addressed in the input data set. The data were then regridded and reinspected for residual discrepancies. This process was repeated until the results were judged to be satisfactory.The grid that was used for the construction of the map can be obtained in two forms: Cartesian with a cell size of 2.5 x 2.5 km at 75i??N, and Geographic with a cell size of one minute of latitude by one minute of longitude. These grids, along with detailed descriptions of their formats and the techniques employed in their preparation, can be downloaded. PURPOSE: Scientific Data CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, wdc, mgg, boulder, arctic, earth science, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, ceos, world data center for marine geology and geophysics, boulder, usa, noaa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, earth science information partners program, water depth, ocean, bathymetry, oceans, seafloor topography, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) Project Data at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: The Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) was initiated to gather research data in the Arctic in order to improve how Global Climate Models (GCMs) simulate the present and future effects of global change in this region. Between January 1997 and November 1998 the multi-national science team carried out the three components of this project. The first component was a field project staged from a 13-month drifting sea ice camp in the Arctic Ocean. The other components included the gathering of satellite remotely sensed data and modelling data. http:  data.eol.ucar.edu codiac projs?SHEBA. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, arctic ocean, light detection and ranging, arctic, temperature tendency, usa, noaa, buoys, precipitation, ctd, atmospheric pressure measurements, noaa-14, noaa-12, sea ice, humidity, spectral, engineering, thermometers, ice growth, melt, models, infrared wavelengths, ecmwf, relative humidity, wind speed, wind direction, barometers, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, cloud height, atmospheric winds, ships, longwave radiation, argos, oceans, atmospheric radiation, continent, icebergs, visible imagery, sea level pressure, sea ice concentration, cloud ceiling, albedo feedback, infrared imagery, argos data collection and position location system, air temperature, geopotential height, surface winds, mrf, polar, density, ice floes, gps receivers, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, cryosphere, sheba, global positioning system, atmospheric pressure, radar, cloud amount, frequency, ice leads, portable automated mesonet, ice depth, thickness, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, ice temperature, snow measuring rod, conductivity, temperature, depth, conductivity, ice types, north america, ice drift, interferometers, sea ice motion, sound navigation and ranging, pam, radiometers, pack ice, anemometers, gps, glaciers, ice sheets, radio detection and ranging, visible wavelengths, airborne oceanographic lidar fluorosensor, ocean, canada, water vapor, ice compactness, salinity, density, geographic region, chukchi sea, altitude, shortwave radiation, balloons, clouds, sonar, aolfl, united states of america, ice velocity, radiosondes, lidar, heat flux, arctic pack ice, salinity, pressure tendency, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: A Half-Century of Change in Arctic Alaskan Shrubs: A Photographic-Based Assessment. ABSTRACT: In this study, the locations of 193 old aerial photographs of northern Alaskan landscapes were rephotographed and assessed for changes in vegetation. The original photographs were taken over northern Alaska between 1948 and 1951, and the new photographs were taken between 1999 and 2003. The region covered by the original and repeat photographs stretches from the southern extent of the Brooks Range in the south to the Coastal Plain in the north, and from the Chukchi Sea in the west to the Canning River in the east. Approximate coordinates are 68&deg;N to 70&deg;N and 145&deg;W to 165&deg;W. The original photographs were taken by the U.S. military as part of geologic reconnaissance and exploration, and the method used to acquire them was to fly both sides of a river valley while photographing the river and the facing valley slopes. Of the several thousand original photographs, only a fraction were repeated for the purpose of assessing vegetation change. Repeat photographs were selected for geographic coverage and to produce the greatest likelihood of detecting vegetation change. The original and repeat photographs were then scanned and stored in TIFF format. Individual image file sizes range from 5 to 60 MB each, and the total file size for the data set is 11 GB. The photographs are distributed on a set of three DVDs. The images should not be published without the consent of the investigators.. KEYWORD: nsidc, ayiyak river, arctic, usa, noaa, arcss130, arctic system science, ivishak river, north america, alaska, chandler river, opp 0119374, canning river, the notch, vegetation cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, kugururok river, oolamnagavik river, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, upper killik river, continent, northern alaska, vegetation, national snow and ice data center, upper nigu river, alaskan north slope, cameras, usa, nsf, united states of america, sag, lupine confluence, helicopter, atigun gorge, sagwon, nanushuk river, polar, aircraft, earth science, colville river, ceos, anaktuvuk river, sheba, upper colville river, horseshoe, castle, kokolik river, kuparuk river, nimiuktuk river, 
TITLE: Digital Geotechnical Database for the Mackenzie Valley Delta Region. ABSTRACT: The Mackenzie Valley Geotechnical Database is a compilation of existing geological and geotechnical data for over 12,000 boreholes that extend from the arctic coast to northwestern Alberta. Additional information on site conditions such as terrain disturbance, vegetation and geomorphology are also included. The original database, compiled in the early 1970s by Proudfoot and Lawrence (1976), contained over 11,000 boreholes. Most of these data were obtained from pipeline and highway related field drilling programs conducted between 1970 and 1975. In the early 1990s approximately 1400 boreholes were added to the database. These data included some of the site investigations undertaken for the construction of the Norman Wells Pipeline Project and the Mackenzie Highway. The Geological Survey of Canada has compiled data for all boreholes into a searchable GIS compatible relational database in Microsoft Access format.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, agriculture, boreholes, north america, soil temperature, soils, geotechnical data, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, land records, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, engineering, permafrost, canada, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: Photochemistry of Ozone Loss in the Arctic Region In Summer (POLARIS) Data Archive. ABSTRACT: POLARIS was a series of high-altitude airborne investigations to understand the behavior of polar stratospheric ozone as it changes from very high concentrations in the spring down to very low concentrations in autumn. The data will help with our understanding on the distribution, chemistry, and physics of stratospheric ozone after the vortex breakup, during the continuous daylight conditions of summer. The experiment took place during April - September 1997 from Fairbanks, Alaska. A complete summary of the results of the experiment are available from: "http:  espoarchive.nasa.gov archive arcs polaris docs eoms ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, atlas, arctic, ammonia, halocarbons and halogens, dinitrogen pentoxide, nasa er-2, halogens, chlorine nitrate, carbonaceous aerosols, cfc-12, alaska, cfc-11, n2o5, humidity, ames particle measurement system, ground stations, ch3ccl, ground-based observations, models, nitric oxide, nitrogen compounds, hydrogen chloride, clo, whole air sampler, microwave temperature profiler, atmospheric water vapor, hfc-143a, alkyl nitrates, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, photochemistry, apms, sls, er-2, continent, aerosol particle properties, focused cavity aerosol spectrometer, sf6, nitrous oxide, co2, chlorinated hydrocarbons, air temperature, photochemistry of ozone loss in the arctic region in summer, haloe, geopotential height, hydrogen compounds, lightweight airborne chromatograph experiment, polar, oxygen compounds, n2o, ch4, methyl halides, photolysis rates, upper level winds, fcas, atmospheric temperature, ccl4, submillimeter limb sounder, maspr, nitrogen dioxide, no2, airborne tunable laser absorption spectrometer, north america, molecular nitrogen, interferometers, chf3, alkanes, trace gases, trace species, o3, lace, brono2, mtp, multiple-angle aerosol spectrometer probe, meteorological measurement system, polaris, c4f8, water vapor, chlorofluorocarbons, composition and photodissociative flux measurement, methane, cfc-113, acats, geographic region, clono2, upper atmosphere research satellite, ch3cf3, altitude, aerosols, two-channel atmospheric tracer instrument, balloons, clouds, airborne chromatograph for atmospheric trace species, ozone, hcl, c2f6, mms, methyl chloride, united states of america, photchemistry, nox, oh, alias, cpfm, cloud condensation nuclei, ozone loss, chlorinated solvents, stratosphere, vertical location, carbon dioxide, bromine monoxide, cloud top temperature, vorticity, sulfate particles, halogen occultation experiment, earth science, was, airborne laser infrared absorption spectrometer, usa, nasa, hydroxyl, hydrofluorocarbons, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, argus, nasa earth resources-2, nitrate particles, uars, 
TITLE: PHYSICAL AND GEOCHEMICAL DATA COLLECTED BY LBCM. ABSTRACT: PHYSICAL AND GEOCHEMICAL DATA COLLECTED BY THE LPCM (HYDROCASTS) ON BOARD OF THE R V MARION DUFRESNE IN RED SEA AND INDIAN OCEAN ENGLISH Geochemical data in the water column have been collected by the LBCM (formerly LPCM) on board of the R V MARION DUFRESNE in the Red Sea, the Indian and the Southern Ocean during several multidisciplinary cruises: MEROU, INDIGO, INDIVAT, JADE, CIVA, OISO. Projects: JGOFS France, WOCE France. The water samples were caught from the CTD rosette and from Niskin bottles. Most of the chemical dosages were made on board during the cruise. The isotopes dosages, that require an heavy technology or a long incubation period, are made afterwards in laboratories in France. FRANCAIS Les donnees geochimiques dans la colonne d'eau ont ete recueillies par le LPCM a bord du N O MARION DUFRESNE dans la Mer Rouge, l'Ocean Indien et l'Ocean Austral pendant plusieurs campagnes pluridisciplinaires. MEROU, INDIGO, INDIVAT, JADE, CIVA, OISO. Projets: JGOFS France, WOCE France. Les echantillons d'eau ont ete preleves a partir de la rosette CTD et des bouteilles Niskin. La plupart des dosages chimiques ont ete realises a bord pendant la campagne. Les dosages d'isotopes exigeant des techniques lourdes ou une periode d'incubation longue sont realises ulterieurement dans des laboratoires en France.. KEYWORD: oiso, service d'observation de l'ocean indien, f12, f11, ocean temperature, indien gaz ocean, woce, no2, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, no3, po4, carbon, jgofs, oxygen, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, ocean composition, measures a l'interface eau-air de la variabilite des echanges de co2, ets, al, antarctica, alkalinity, offshore, red sea, ships, radio-isotopes, ocean, amd, fr, nh3, oceans, ocean pressure, woce-civa, amd, salinity, density, dissolved gases, indigo, geographic region, indian ocean, coastal, indivat, minerve, ba, dissolved nitrogen, continent, c13, joint global ocean flux study, igbp, niskin bottles, c14, world ocean circulation experiment, nitrate, dissolved solids, nutrients, sio3, trace elements, ca, sr, polar, salinity, carbon dioxide, pco2, woce-civa french cruise experiment, pigments, southern ocean, total alkalinity, earth science, chlorophyll, phosphate, ceos, total carbon, chlorophyll a, cr, subsurface hydrography (eg t,s), silicate, v, ph, other trace chemistry, 
TITLE: Baltic Seabirds Transect Surveys. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Seabirds transect surveys were conducted in Baltic Sea from 1992 to 1999. PURPOSE: The main purpose of our work was to investigate spatial structure and dynamics of the offshore seabird populations and to assess their status in specific conditions of the Baltic Sea marine ecosystem. The main tasks of our work were the following: ---Study species composition, abundance and spatial distribution of seabird populations in different seasons of the year, distinguish dominating species and the most important seabird concentration areas in the eastern Baltic; ---Study community structure of inter-specific assemblages and ecological adaptations of wintering seabird populations; ---Study the processes of spatial dynamics and trends of spatial structure in regional seabird populations within the gradient of winter climatic conditions; ---Study offshore migratory routes and temporary concentration areas of seabirds in the Baltic Proper. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: Standard seabird offshore sampling techniques (Tasker et al., 1984; Webb, Durinck, 1992) assume that line transect of 300 m width is basically used for counting birds sitting on the water surface, whereas snap-shot method is used for counting of flying birds at strongly fixed intervals of time. Additional efforts were put into studies of the offshore seabird and waterfowl movements. We recorded flying birds along 1000 m wide transect over the \"classic\" 300 m transect used for calculations of seabird densities during \"snap-shots\". CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, obis, seamap, biological classification, salteador pomarino, sabine's gulls, grand cormoran, arctic, black tern, cygne siffleur, red-breasted merganser, winter wren, dovekie, negreta ala blanca, colimbo menor, willow warblers, white wagtail, mallard, great black-backed gull, macreuse noire, waders, gulls, auks and allies, baltic sea, eurasian crow, eurasian blackbird, arctic tern, eurasian jackdaw, cerceta ala verde, ross' gulls, merle noir, animals, vertebrates, ships, mew gull, loons, jaegers, negreta negra, razorbill, gaviota blanca, miroir, mouette tridactyle, sandpipers, eurasian skylark, north atlantic ocean, common eider, land brun, gaviota plateada, birds, common tern, distribution, be esclavon, little tern, grebes, macreuse brune, ducks, geese, swans, cisne de tundra, common black-headed gull, colimbo mayor, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, gaviota cana, n negro, choucas des tours, golondrina tijereta, polar, common goldeneye, common swift, kittiwakes, labbe pomarin, density, sito, grand harle, arctic loon, transect surveys, sarcelle d'hiver, rtico, lesser black-backed gull, black scoter, oldsquaw, hirondelle rustique, herons, egrets and allies, common loon, common merganser, oeil d'or, black-headed gull, mute swan, canard colvert, common crane, estornino pinto, swans, labbe parasite, mouette rieuse, cranes and allies, redshanks, greater scaup, parasitic jaeger, tundra swan, pato cola larga, red-throated loon, mergo mayor, pomarine jaeger, gulls, common murre, petit pingouin, pato de collar, ocean, fuligule milouinan, guillemot marmette, zambullidor cornudo, plongeon catmarin, bean geese, geographic region, nima, land bourgmestre, great cormorant, little gull, sterne pierregarin, duvet, european starling, mergule main, green-winged teal, obis-seamap, sterne arctique, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, guifette noire, perching birds, gaviota encapuchada, black guillemot, plongeon huard, northern lapwing, tourneau sansonnet, ivory gulls, earth science, gaviota pata negra, lavandera blanca, pato boludo-mayor, horned grebe, land marin, glaucous gull, barn swallow, black-legged kittiwake, seabirds, dabbling ducks, white-winged scoter, harelde kakawi, common chaffinch, herring gull, atlantic ocean, troglodyte mignon, whooper swan, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: EISCAT radar data. ABSTRACT: The EISCAT radars enable us to obtain plasma parameters such as electron density and ion electron temperatures between about 90 and 1000 km altitude above Northern Scandinavia and Svalbard. Subjects of research are Ionosphere-neutral atmosphere coupling, Magnetosphere-Ionosphere coupling, and solar wind acceleration, etc. EISCAT observations are divided into Common Program (CP) and Special Program (SP).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, total electron content, arctic, kiruna, tromsoe, earth science, ceos, longyearbyen, atmospheric electricity, northern europe, sodankyla, ipy, scandinavia, sweden, sun-earth interactions, international polar year, norway, geographic region, arctic, jp, europe, finland, 
TITLE: Razorbill and Waterbird Surveys, Boat-based, in Winter in the Bay of Fundy, Canada. ABSTRACT: This data set contains boat-based winter survey data (relative abundance) 1996-2000 from the Grand Manan Island regions, Bay of Fundy, Canada. It covers waterbird, seabird and some sea mammal survey data, collected with unlimited survey-width (PIROP approach) from lobster boats. Provide general abundance information on Razorbills and other sea- and waterbirds, and sea mammals for the Grand Manan Island region, Bay of Fundy.. KEYWORD: seabird ecology, arctic ocean, bau of fundy, biological classification, bucephala albeola, ecological dynamics, arctic, black-headed gull, grand manan island, atlantic canada, brant, bufflehead, waterbird, winter ecology, accipiter, branta bernicla, north america, anas rubripes, old proprietor shoals, bonaparte?s gull, black-throated green warbler, accipitridae, bay of fundy, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, atlantic puffin, canada, ocean, geographic region, usa, usgs, continent, canada goose, ardea herodias, calidris maritima, anatidae, alca torda, sea mammal surveys, bald eagle, birds, ducks, geese, swans, american crow, index of relative abundance, black guillemot, branta canadensis, polar, seabird monitoring, american black duck, alca, earth science, ceos, seabird surveys, population dynamics, bucephala clangula, maritime canada, black-legged kittiwake, species, population interactions, alle alle, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MYD10C1) consists of 7200-column by 3600-row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg climate modeling grid (CMG). Data and quality assurance (QA) fields are in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. Data extend from 04 July 2002 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, amd, esip, geographic region, cmg, swath, 
TITLE: Weekly Plots of Node B CTD Data Weekly Plots of Node B CTD Data. ABSTRACT: The LEO-15 Nodes are the center of our underwater research and are located 3 (Node A) and 4.5 (Node B) miles off the New Jersey coast near Tuckerton. The nodes record data on water temperatures, salinity, clarity, wave height, current speeds etc. Weekly Plots of Node B CTD and Wave Data: LEO-15 Node-B Real-Time Wave Analysis is available online. Surface waves at LEO-15 are measured with a bottom-mounted pressure sensor, not a surface buoy. By the time they reach the seafloor, shorter period waves have been attenuated more than longer period waves. Waves with periods below about 4.5 seconds are rarely observable with the LEO-15 bottom-mounted pressure sensor. Surface buoy observations include waves with periods below 4.5 seconds, so they report higher significant wave heights than the LEO-15 pressure sensor. The Data from LEO-15 research is made available to the public on the condition that Rutgers, its employees and agents make no representations or warranties regarding the reliability or validity of the data nor the use to which such data should be put, disclaim any and all responsibility for any errors or inaccuracies in the data and bear no responsibility for any use made of this data by any party.. KEYWORD: continent, salinity, wind-driven circulation, earth science, water temperature, wave frequency, ocean temperature, wave height, wave speed, direction, usa, nasa, sea surface topography, bathymetry, seafloor topography, sea surface height, water depth, sst, north america, wave length, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, ocean waves, ocean circulation, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Circum-Arctic Map of Permafrost and Ground-Ice Conditions. ABSTRACT: The Circum-Arctic permafrost and ground ice map is available via ftp in ESRI Shapefile format and Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid) format. See the Format section for an explanation of the files provided via ftp. The circumpolar permafrost and ground ice data contribute to a unified international data set that depicts the distribution and properties of permafrost and ground ice in the Northern Hemisphere (20N to 90N). The re-gridded data set shows discontinuous, sporadic, or isolated permafrost boundaries. Permafrost extent is estimated in percent area (90-100%, 50-90%, 10-50%, <10%, and no permafrost). Relative abundance of ground ice in the upper 20 m is estimated in percent volume (>20%, 10-20%, <10%, and 0%). The data set also contains the location of subsea and relict permafrost. the gridded data are gridded at 12.5 km, 25 km, and 0.5 degree resolution. The shapefiles were derived from the original 1:10,000,000 paper map (Brown et al. 1997) Permafrost, or permanently frozen ground, is ground (soil, sediment, or rock) that remains at or below 0C for at least two years (Permafrost Subcommittee, 1988). It occurs both on land and beneath offshore arctic continental shelves, and underlies about 22% of the Earth's land surface. For more information on the creation of the original map, see Heginbottom et al. (1993). The original paper map also includes information on the relative abundance of ice wedges, massive ice bodies and Pingos, ranges of permafrost temperature and thickness (Brown et al. 1997).. KEYWORD: permafrost extent, polar, mapping, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, boreholes, permafrost, discontinuous permafrost, ground ice, frozen ground, circumpolar, geographic region, continuous permafrost, 
TITLE: Arctic Oceanography; Currents, Water Properties, Numerical Models, Meteorology. ABSTRACT: This directory entry was created from information gathered in a survey conducted as part of NOAA's Data System Modernization program. The following parameters were identified for this data set in the survey: currents, water properties, drifters, numerical model runs, meteorology.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, boundary layer, arctic, usa, noaa, troposphere, meteorological stations, surface winds, idn_node gsfc, noaa, oar, pmel, vertical location, polar, drifters, models, surface pressure, surface air temperature, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ocean, numerical models, oceans, geographic region, water properties, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Meteorological Data from the Russian Arctic, 1961-2000. ABSTRACT: This data set contains monthly means of meteorological observation data from Russian stations from 1961-2000 (for most stations). The Russian station observations were provided by Vladimir Radionov, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, and include 2-meter air temperature, sea level pressure, total and low cloud amount, precipitation, and relative humidity. Data are available in ASCII text format via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, continent, precipitation amount, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic meteorology and climate atlas, arctic, wet bulb thermometers, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, clouds, usa, noaa, precipitation, noaa, russia, wmo, humidity, thermometers, europe, ground-based observations, polar, earth science, ceos, world meteorological organization, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, aari, tretyakov precipitation gauges, hygrometers, dry bulb thermometers, geographic region, 
TITLE: Monthly Summaries of Soil Temperature and Soil Moisture at Sites in Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains soil temperature and soil moisture from 17 sites in Alaska. Temporal coverage varies by station; the earliest record is from September 1995, and the latest is from August 2001. Data from individual stations are available in tab-delimited ASCII text files. An Excel spreadsheet contains the same data compiled together in a single file. NSIDC currently provides these summary data via ftp; the full soil temperature and moisture data set is available from Ron Paetzold, USDA.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, continent, polar, soil moisture, water content, soil moisture, ggd, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, alaskan north slope, united states of america, north america, alaska, frozen ground, soil temperature, geographic region, soils, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Weekly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: XCTD  XBT dataset in 2002 2003 CHINARE-19th. ABSTRACT: The XBT and XCTD are made by Sippican,Inc., USA in this cruise from 13 January, 2003 to 15 March, 2003. There are 286 XBT and 46 XDT in the Prydz Bay of Anatarctic, West Pacific of Ocean, India of Ocean.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, xctd, expendable bathythermographs, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean acoustics, ocean temperature, xbt, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Monthly Mean Precipitation Sums at Russian Arctic Stations, 1966-1990. ABSTRACT: This data set contains monthly mean precipitation sums from Russian arctic stations. Precipitation measurements were acquired using a Tretyakov precipitation gauge. Data have not been adjusted for wind bias. Data from 1967 and later are corrected for wetting loss (this correction was made by observers as they recorded the station data). Precipitation measurements from 216 stations are available. An analysis of existing precipitation data sets confirmed that data from these stations are not, at the time of publication, available in other commonly used precipitation data sets. Most data records begin in 1966 and end in 1990. The data are in tab-delimited ASCII format and available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, precipitation amount, arctic, earth science, study of environmental arctic change, ceos, russian arctic, usa, noaa, rain gauges, precipitation, eastern europe, noaa, search, northern hemisphere, russia, geographic region, europe, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Methyl Chloroform (CCH3CCl3) Measured by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network at NOAA CMDL HATS. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has measured methyl chloroform (CCH3CCl3 or 1,1,1-trichloroethane) from in situ gas chromtagraph (GC) data from NOAA CMDL HATS stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO) to suppport NOAA's Radiatively Important Trace Species (RITS) program. Currently only monthly data is available. Principal investigators for the HCFC flask measurements are: J. Elkins, T. Thompson (NOAA CMDL), and T. Swanson (CIRES) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats solvents cch3ccl3" For more information on the NOAA CMDL HATS program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov hats ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, cch3ccl3, continent, arctic ocean, climate monitoring and diagnostics laboratory (noaa), american samoa, greenhouse effect, arctic, cape matatula, usa, noaa, flasks, greenhouse gas, noaa, united states of america, north america, alaska, trichloroethane, ground stations, noah, chlorinated solvents, cmdl, radiatively important trace species 1989, polar, rits 89, ftp, trace gases, trace species, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, antarctica, colorado, atmospheric chemistry, global warming, samoa, gas chromatographs, ocean, niwot ridge, point barrow, mauna loa, amd, central pacific ocean, geographic region, flask, methyl chloroform, south pole, 
TITLE: Real-Time and Archived Underwater Data from LEO-15. ABSTRACT: Real-Time and Archived Underwater Data from LEO-15 including temperature, wave height, salinity etc is available online. The LEO-15 Nodes are the center of our underwater research and are located 3 (Node A) and 4.5 (Node B) miles off the New Jersey coast near Tuckerton. The nodes record data on water temperatures, salinity, clarity, wave height, current speeds etc. The Data includes: Weekly Data from Node A Weekly Data from Node B Profile Data from Node A Profile Data from Node B. KEYWORD: continent, salinity, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, sea surface topography, sea surface height, sst, north america, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Compiled Shorebird Migration Locations for Great Knot, Red Knot and Bar-Tailed Godwit in the Sea of Okhotsk coastal region, Russian Far East. ABSTRACT: Movements of animals are believed to improve their fitness. Migration is such a technique, and it can be commonly observed among birds. In most of the migratory species, clear migration patterns and seasonal migration routes can be found. The migration strategies of shorebirds are manifold, and with some exceptions still not fully explained. The Pacific East Asian-Australasian Flyway is among the least investigated migration routes for shorebirds; it presents one of the longest flyways in the world and is a major link between birds in the wintering ground of the southern hemisphere (mostly Australia and New Zealand) and the breeding grounds of the northern hemisphere (mostly the Russian high arctic). The Russian Far Eastern part of this flyway has received relatively little international attention; this is mostly due to restricted access until 1989, and lack of awareness and financial support after 1989. Nevertheless, proximity to breeding grounds, huge mudflats, high tides and numerous river estuaries suggest that this region should be of importance to shorebirds on the East Asian-Australasian Flyway. This has triggered the research and data compilation for this project. In order to learn more about this flyway, three focal species (Great Knot Calidris tenuirostris, Red Knot Calidris canutus, and Bar-tailed Godwit Limosa lapponica) were selected as they are considered to be long-distance migrants restricted to a limited number of key staging areas along the threatened coastlines of this flyway. 232 known locations and their basic habitat descriptors (e.g. Tidal range, freshwater inflow yes no, estuary area, surrounding habitat type) from GIS (Geographic Information Systems) overlays are presented for these 3 species from compiled references and literature reviews for the migration strategies relevant to the focal species in the coastal Sea of Okhotsk region and the context of the East Asian Australasian flyway. These compiled data are taken from Huettmann 2003, which constitutes the final part of a research contract with Doug Watkins for Wetlands International, Environment Australia (see Huettmann 2000 for part I). No specific field guide exists for the birds of Russian Far East (but see see Flint et al. 1984 and Knystautas 1987 for general ornithological information; and for shorebirds Johnsgard 1981 and Hayman et al. 1986). Other than perhaps Gill et al. (1994) no English publications are available that cover the whole species spectrum of birds to be encountered during migration season (compare Paulson 1993 and Truett and Johnson 2000). Despite a shift of paradigms in recent years, most publications on shorebird migration are in Russian still, and not available to the general international public. Here we try to fill this gap providing GIS data sets for this habitat and for the three shorebird species.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, limosa lapponica, ecological dynamics, arctic, migratory rates, routes, united states of america, russia, north america, sea okhotsk, north pacific ocean, polar, shorebird migration, sea of okhotsk, russian, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, biosphere, literature review, ocean, estuary, species, population interactions, geographic region, bar-tailed godwit, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Global Ozone Monitoring Experiment (GOME) Data Products from the Institute of Environmental Physics and Remote Sensing (IUP ife), Germany. ABSTRACT: In collaboration with the DLR German Remote Sensing Data Center (DLR DFD), and the European Space Agency (ESA), the Bremen Institute of Environmental Physics and Remote Sensing (ife iup) provided near real-time GOME ozone maps during the arctic winter 1997 (January 24, 1997 - March 31, 1997). The delivery of near-real-time total ozone maps and vertical profiles by ife iup supported the coordination of aircraft and balloon experiments as part of the European arctic winter campaign in and around Kiruna, Sweden (POLSTAR, POLECAT, ADEOS-Validation). The investigation of the GOME vertical profile distribution in the northern hemisphere in connection with the dynamics of the polar vortex and ozone loss during winter spring 1997 is one major goal in the campaign activities. Preliminary height-resolved ozone and total column ozone images are presented. Near-real-time height-resolved ozone maps are only available for the time of the arctic campaign until March 31, 1997. Since the support of NRT GOME Level-2 data (total ozone) has been continued, total ozone maps from the same day are still provided on this web site. The 1-day total ozone images are updated every six hours. The ozone maps are produced at ife iup using the Level-2 data (total columns of ozone) provided from the new Kiruna-based GDP (GOME Data Processor) of the DLR DFD. The ESA station in Kiruna is one of five ground stations receiving the global ERS-2 transmission. Ten out of the daily fourteen GOME orbits are transmitted to Kiruna. In the near future three additional orbits from the Mapolamos and Gatineau stations will be also available. The ozone vertical profiles are generated at the University of Bremen using the GDP Level-1 data (radiometrically calibrated sun and earthshine spectra). GOME Global Ozone Distributions ------------------------------- With the current scan strategy (960-km swath) it takes GOME three days to achieve global coverage (for details see the GOME instrument description). For each month (beginning with July 1996) the plots on this page show four three-day periods of GOME measured total ozone values as indicated in the plot titles. This gives an impression of the evolution of the global ozone distribution during one month. Vertical column amounts of ozone are operationally derived from the GOME spectra at DLR-DFD using the DOAS method. At ife iup the irregularly spaced measurement points are gridded to a regular lat-long grid before being mapped. White space on the maps is due to data gaps. [Summary Adapted from the IUP ife Home Page]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, global ozone monitoring experiment, arctic, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, global, dlr, european remote sensing satellite-2, ozone, ers-2, gome, tropospheric ozone, esa, esrin, atmospheric chemistry, northern hemisphere, ozone hole, southern hemisphere, geographic region, air quality, 
TITLE: The NOAA Climate Monitoring Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) Aerosol Data from the NOAA Climate Diagnostics Center via WWW. ABSTRACT: The NOAA Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) address on the WWW is 'http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov '. This data set records light-scattering coefficient and condensation nuclei concentration measurements, taken from four monitoring stations at remote locations. The data are collected by the Geophysical Monitoring for Climatic Change (GMCC) Program to measure the concentrations and characteristics of gaseous and aerosol species in the atmosphere. The mission of the GMCC program is to detect any long-term trends in the concentrations of these species caused by anthropogenic or natural sources, and to assess possible climatic effects that may result from these changes. The four monitoring stations are located at 1) Barrow, Alaska; 2) Mauna Loa, Hawaii; 3) Cape Matatula, American Samoa; and 4) Amundsen-Scott Station, South Pole, Antarctica. All are located on approximately the same longitude and are situated to allow sampling of Arctic, northern midtropical, southern midtropical, and Antarctic air. The stations are located at remote sites to minimize the effect of local pollution sources. At each station, a condensation nucleus counter measures the condensation nuclei concentration, and nephelometers measure the scattering portion of extinction due to aerosol particles in the atmosphere at four wavelengths, 450, 550, 700, and 850 nm. The output signal of each instrument is sampled once per second, and data are stored on magnetic tape in the form of 1-min and 1-hour means. The data are then edited on an hourly basis to eliminate bad data, fill missing data from backup instruments, and apply final calibrations. A nearly continuous record is available from the Barrow station since 1971, from Mauna Loa since 1974, from Samoa since 1977, and from the South Pole since 1974. All GMCC aerosol data are available from the principal investigator in magnetic tape, printout, graphic, or microfiche format.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic ocean, turbidity, aerosols, american samoa, arctic, condensation nuclei, cape matatula, scattering extinction, global, usa, noaa, particulate concentration, united states of america, north america, www, alaska, minute data, cnc, ground stations, idn_node gsfc, noaa, oar, erl, cdc, cloud condensation nuclei, cmdl, aerosol extinction, air quality, barrow, polar, amd, us, hourly data, visibility, surface, meteorology, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, hawaii, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, antarctica, condensation nuclei counter, ocean, mauna loa, amd, central pacific ocean, geographic region, nephelometers, south pole, 
TITLE: SCICEX Hydrographic Data, 1993. ABSTRACT: During the SCICEX 1993 cruise, the USS Pargo sampled hydrographic data while surfaced. The data collected were conductivity, temperature, and depth (CTD), using a Sea-Bird CTD, expendable CTD probes, and a Sea-Bird Seacat. Twenty surface CTD casts and 34 expendable drops were recorded, while a CTD mounted on the sail logged a sample every 12 minutes. Data are in ASCII text format.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, arcss, scicex, arctic system science, scientific ice expeditions, arctic, arcss072, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, scientific ice expeditions, usa, nsf, ctd, conductivity, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, oce9313709, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, bathymetry, seafloor topography, oce-9313709, water bottles, ships, national science foundation, water depth, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, scicex, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Organic Fe Speciation in the Southern Ocean. ABSTRACT: Objectives The distribution and biological availability of Fe is strongly controlled by its physical-chemical speciation within seawater, where colloids and Fe-organic complexes are dominant factors. In order to study the distribution and the biological availability of Fe, the natural Fe organic complexes over the whole water depth were determined in three different size fractions. Special attention was given in that distinct water masses present were sampled as well. Samples were collected by an ultra-clean sampling system using 24 Go Flo bottles fixed on an all-titanium frame and with a Kevlar cable. The concentration of iron binding ligands (organic compounds which strongly bind Fe) and their binding strength (conditional stability constant) are studied in 3 size classes here: unfiltered water, 0.2 m filtered water and smaller than 1000 KDa ultra-filtrated water. Methods General Under ultra clean conditions the 0.2 m filtered seawater was ultra-filtrated using polyethylene hollow-fiber filters as to make an operational defined distinction between large colloidal and small colloidal Fe including the truly dissolved Fe (1000 KDa nominal weight, Stereapore, Mitsubishi-rayon Co. Ltd, Nishioka and al., 2000, 2005). The dissolved organic iron (0.2 m filtered) as well as the truly dissolved iron (< 1000 KDa) were analysed by Maarten Klunder and Patrick Laan using a chemo luminescence method (FIA) with acidified samples (pH 1.8). Total iron will be measured 6-12 months after the acidification of the unfiltered sample. The natural ligand characteristics were determined by doing a complexing ligand titration with addition of iron (between 0 and 8 nM of Fe added) in buffered seawater (mixed NH3 NH4OH borate buffer, 5 mM). The competing ligand TAC (2-(2-Thiazolylazo)-p-cresol) with a final concentration of 10 M was used and the complex (TAC)2-Fe was measured after equilibration (> 15 h) by cathodic stripping voltammetry (CSV) (Croot and Johansson, 2000). The electrical signal recorded with this method (nA) was converted as a concentration (nM), then the ligand concentration and the binding strength were estimated using the non-linear regression of the Langmuir isotherm (Gerringa and al., 1995). The voltammetric equipment consisted of a Autolab potentiostat (Type I, II and III, Ecochemie, The Netherlands), a mercury drop electrode (model VA 663 from Metrohm). All equipment was protected against electrical noise by a current filter (Fortress 750, Best Power). Sampling statistics Seven stations were sampled on the zero meridian transect with a maximal depth of 4500 m. A total of 140 samples on 56 depths were sampled (28 of unfiltered, 56 of 0.2 m filtered and 56 of 1000 KDa ultra-filtered). Among them, 11 depths characterizing the most important water-masses were sampled twice and kept frozen for later analyses while back at NIOZ (for the study of kinetic exchange between the different forms of iron). Two profiles were sampled in the Weddell Sea for a total of 46 samples (8 of unfiltered, 19 of 0.2 m filtered and 19 of 1000 KDa ultra-filtered). 8 depths were also sampled twice to characterize important water-masses.. KEYWORD: size fractionation, amd, nl, organic ligands, organic fe, 1000 kda, geotraces, static mercury drop electrode, unfiltered, trace elements, international polar year, weddell sea, south atlantic ocean, cle-acsv, polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, conditional stability constants, r, v polarstern, stripping voltammetry, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, oceans, iron, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Alaskan Air, Ground, Snow, and Soil Temperatures, 1998-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set contains air and ground temperature measurements collected from three different regions, each with multiple sites. The regions sampled are North Slope, Council, and Ivotuk. Measurements were taken as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions - Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (LAII-ATLAS) program. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant numbers OPP-9721347, OPP-9870635, and OPP-9732126.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, opp-9870635, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, woodland, atlas, arctic, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, noist non-acidic tundra (mnt), arctic system science, shrub, temperature loggers, frozen ground data center, north america, alaska, chandalar shelf, arcss, laii, atlas, seward peninsula, deadhorse, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, opp-9721347, well logging tools, arctic system science data coordination center, ivotuk region, office of polar programs, national science foundation, toolik lake, opp9721347, galbraith lake, opp-9732126, moss, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, forest, council region, air temperature, land-atmosphere-ice interactions, usa, nsf, franklin bluffs, united states of america, opp9732126, probes, arcss903, soils, snow, ice, polar, moist acidic tundra (mat), ggd903, laii, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, snow, ice temperature, opp9870635, north slope region, adcc, tundra, national science foundation, west dock, soil moisture probe, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Clouds 5-Min L2 Swath 1km and 5km (Collection 004 and 005). ABSTRACT: MODIS was launched aboard the Terra satellite on December 18, 1999 (10:30 am equator crossing time) as part of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) mission. MODIS with its 2330 km viewing swath width provides almost daily global coverage. It acquires data in 36 high spectral resolution bands between 0.415 to 14.235 micron with spatial resolutions of 250m(2 bands), 500m(5 bands), and 1000m (29 bands). MODIS sensor counts, calibrated radiances, geolocation products and all derived geophysical atmospheric and ocean products are archived at NASA Goddard DAAC and has been made available to public since April 2000. The level-2 MODIS cloud product consists of cloud optical and physical parameters. These parameters are derived using remotely sensed infrared, visible and near infrared solar reflected radiances. MODIS infrared channel radiances are used to derive cloud top temperature, cloud top height, effective emissivity, cloud phase (ice vs. water, opaque vs. non-opaque), and cloud fraction under both daytime and nighttime conditions. MODIS visible radiances are used to derive cloud optical thickness and effective particle radius and cloud shadow effects. Near infrared solar reflected radiance provides additional information in the retrieval of cloud particle phase (ice vs. water, clouds vs. snow). The shortname for this level-2 MODIS cloud product is MOD06_L2 and the principal investigators for this product are MODIS scientists Dr. Bo-Cai Gao ( gao@rsd.nrl.navy.mil) for cirrus cloud detection; Dr. Paul Menzel ( paulm@ssec.wisc.edu) for cloud top properties; and Dr. Michael King( king@climate.gsfc.nasa.gov) for cloud optical properties . The level-2 cloud product (MOD06_L2) consists of 46 gridded cloud parameters. These parameters are produced at a spatial resolution of either 1- km or 5-km (at nadir). Each MOD06_L2 product file covers a five-minute time interval. This means that for 5-km resolution parameters, the output grid is 270 pixels in width by 406 pixels in length. Every tenth granule has an output grid size of 270 by 408 pixels. For 1-km resolution parameters, the output grid is 1354 pixels in width by 2030 pixels in length and every tenth granule has an output grid size of 1354 by 2040 pixels. MOD06_L2 product files are stored in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS). Forty four of the 46 gridded cloud parameters are stored as Scientific Data Sets (SDS) within the file, the remaining two (band number and statistics) are stored as Vdata(table arrays). Approximately 288 files are produced daily. Nighttime files are smaller than their daytime counterparts since only cloud top properties are retrieved at night. Each daytime file is roughly 65.1 MB in size and each nighttime HDF file roughly 12.4 MB in size, and the total data volume is approximately 12.3 GB day. MOD06_L2 Data Category & Parameters Spatial & Temporal Resolution: latitude,longitude scan start time Solar and Sensor Viewing Geometry: solar zenith angle, solar azimuth angle sensor zenith angle, sensor azimuth angle Cloud Top Parameters (5km): cloud top pressure from IR retriev(daytime,nighttime,all) cloud top pressures from individual thermal band ratios cloud height retrieval method, tropopause height surface pressure cloud top temperature (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud effective emissivity (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud fraction (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud phase(daytime, nighttime, all) Cloud Optical Properties (1km): cloud optical thickness cloud water path effective particle radius effective particle radius difference Radiation Parameters: spectral cloud forcing cirrus reflectance surface type (emissivity based) Brightness Temperature Brightness Temperature Difference Quality Assurance Parameters: Processing flag for 5 km resolution cirrus reflectance flag for 1 km resolution quality assurance flag for 1 & 5 km resolution cloud mask for 1 & 5 km, radiance variance for thermal bands statistics for parameters at 1km resolution The MODIS Cloud Product will be used to investigate seasonal and inter-annual changes in cirrus (semi-transparent) global cloud cover and cloud phase with multispectral observations at high spatial (1 kilometer) resolution. For more information about the MOD06_L2 product, visit the MODIS-Atmosphere site at: http:  modis-atmos.gsfc.nasa.gov MOD06_L2  or See the MODIS Science Team homepage for more data set information at: http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data dataprod . KEYWORD: atmosphere, cloud climatology, emissivity, earth observing system (eos), terra, terra, cloud effective radius, modis cloud products, arctic, cloud precipitable water, echo, open-source project for a network data access protocol, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, droplet size, cloud altitude, spectral cloud forcing, modis, optical depth, thickness, contrail reflectance, cloud reflectance, cirrus reflectance, cloud water path, cloud optical depth, thickness, transmittance, cloud microphysics, cloud forcing, low cloud, water cloud, cloud height, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, global change, cloud phase, mod06, geographic region, opendap, atmospheric radiation, cloud extent, cloud ceiling, cloud emissivity, global, clouds, mod06_l2, cloud vertical distribution, earth observing system, terra (am-1), cloud fraction, cloud liquid water path, eosdis, earth science information partners program, droplet concentration, size, effective emissivity, cloud condensation nuclei, ice cloud, cloud optical depth, cloud top pressure, radiative flux, polar, cloud top temperature, reflectance, cloud types, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, cloud top height, thick cloud, usa, nasa, atmospheric emitted radiation, thin cloud, contrail, cloud amount, frequency, cloud asymmetry, dods, cloud type, esip, cloud optical properties, high cloud, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: 1990 PASSCAL USGS GSC Brooks Range Seismic Survey. ABSTRACT: In the summer of 1990, the U.S. Geological Survey, Rice University and the Geological Survey of Canada conducted a seismic experiment across the Brooks Range, Alaska. The goal of the experiment was to produce a high-resolution image of the crust and upper mantle of the Brooks Range and flanking geologic provinces by combining reflection and refraction techniques. Five deployments of vertical sensors recorded 63 shots at 44 different locations along a 315 km profile. The nominal station spacing is 100 meters. Shot sizes varied from 100 lbs to 4000 lbs and the offsets varied from 0 to 200 km.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, program for array seismic studies of the continental lithosphere, brooks range, seismic refraction, seismology, arctic, earth science, upper mantle, usa, nasa, crust, iris-gsn, seismic profile, united states of america, north america, alaska, seismic reflection, passcal, seismic surface waves, mantle, geographic region, seismic body waves, incorporated research institutions for seismology network - global seismographic network, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton investigation collocted with High speed plankton collector by 11th CHINARE in 1994-1995. ABSTRACT: 7 of 16 of hi-speed planktonic samples were collected from Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 data on the Zhongshan station,Antarctic,Year 1996. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and saved on CDR disks eventually.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, digisondes, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: The Stratospheric Aerosol Measurement II (SAM II) Data set (SAM2_AERO_PRF_NAT). ABSTRACT: The Stratospheric Aerosol Measurement (SAM) II experiment flew aboard the Nimbus 7 spacecraft and provided vertical profiles of aerosol extinction in both the Arctic and Antarctic polar regions. The SAM II data coverage began on October 29, 1978 and extended through December 18, 1993, until SAM II was no longer able to acquire the sun. The data coverage for the Antarctic region extends through December 18, 1993, and has one data gap for the period of time from mid-January through the end of October 1993. The data coverage for the Arctic region extends through January 7, 1991, and contains data gaps beginning in 1988 that increase in size each year due to an orbit degradation associated with the Nimbus-7 spacecraft.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, idn_node gsfc, larc_daac, stratospheric aerosol measurement ii, aerosols, vertical profiles, boundary layer, arctic, earth science, sam-ii, sun photometers, global, usa, nasa, troposphere, eosdis, photometers, nimbus-7, earth science information partners program, earth observing system data information system, esip, geographic region, aerosol extinction, 
TITLE: Soil climate and atmospheric data for Scott Base, Marble Point, Mount Fleming, Bull Pass, Granite Harbour, Minna Bluff and the Victoria Valley, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: In collaboration with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) climate stations were installed at six locations in the Ross Sea Region including Scott Base, Marble Point and Bull Pass all in the summer of 1998-1999, Mount Fleming in 2001-2002, Granite Harbour in 2002-2003 and Minna Bluff in 2002-2003. These stations make continuous atmospheric and soil climate recordings to provide information for comparison of soil climatic attributes with those from Arctic regions, to help understand the impacts of global climate changes on cold region soils and permafrost. New Zealand took over the annual maintenance and data collection from climate stations in the Victoria Valley in the 2001-2002. Each station monitors soil moisture, soil temperature and salinity to depths of 1.2 m. Measurements of atmospheric variables include air temperature, relative humidity, solar radiation and wind speed and direction. MRC temperature probes were installed at depths of 2 cm to 1.2 m at Minna Bluff and Granite Harbour (2002-2003). Measurements are made at 20 minute intervals and averaged and recorded every hour.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, bull pass, soil moisture, water content, active layer, atmospheric temperature, minna bluff, air temperature, mt fleming, marble point, soil temperature probe, humidity, soil temperature, soils, surface winds, arws, polar, circumpolar active layer monitoring program, granite harbour, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, solar radiation, land surface, antarctica, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, calm, victoria valley, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, nz, frozen ground, soil moisture probe, amd, geographic region, aws, atmospheric radiation, scott base, 
TITLE: Environment and Water Quality Data Associated with Industrial Projects on Land and Offshore for the Northwest Territories - Canada. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes site location and pollutant concentration. The pollutants identified are: heavy metals, major elements, microbiological characteristics, industrial pollutants, oils hydrocarbons, organic chemicals, radionuclides and rare earth elements from about 40 projects conducted within the Northwest Territories. Information on background water quality as well as the quality of effluent discharged from drilling and mining operations is also provided. The data is submitted under act compliance by industry, collected by the Department or collected by consultants. It is being updated monthly or annually depending on the project. Access is on request, with the data available at no charge. The database is on a WANG computer with custom software. This database is identified on the Northern Information Network (NIN) at the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. This database was created to provide information to perform environmental assessments and to monitor industrial projects for compliance with water quality requirements under the following acts: Northern Inland Waters, Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention, Territorial Lands, and the Federal Environmental Assessment and Review Process Order in Council. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: contaminants, continent, toxic chemicals, gcmd, arctic, effluents, industry, none, nunavut, northwest territories, oil spill, north america, water quantity, water quality, water chemistry, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, emissions, polar, earth science, runoff, ceos, environmental impacts, pollutants, surface water, yukon, inorganic matter, environmental assessment, canada, cgdi, water quality, canada, rivers, streams, organic matter, geographic region, 
TITLE: Dataset for COPOL project. ABSTRACT: COPOL is a project under the auspices of the International Polar Year (IPY). The main objective of the project is to understand the dynamic range of man-made contaminants in marine ecosystems of Polar Regions, in order to better predict how possible future climate change will be reflected in levels and effects at higher trophic levels. This aim will be addressed by 4 integrated work packages covering the scopes of 1) food web contaminant exposure and flux, 2) transfer to higher trophic levels and potential effects, 3) chemical analyses and screening, 4) synthesis and integration. The COPOL project focuses on the Arctic region, and the main effort is concentrated in Kongsfjorden (Spitzbergen). This fjord has been identified as particularly suitable as a study site of contaminants processes, due to the remoteness of sources, and for influences of climatic changes, due to the documented relation between Atlantic water influx and the climatic index North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). Variable Atlantic water influx will not only influence abiotic contaminant exposure, but also food web structure, food quality and energy pathways, as different water masses carry different phyto- and zooplankton assemblages. This may affect the flux of contaminants through the food web to high trophic level predators such as seabirds and seals, due to altered food quality and energy pathways. Three field campaigns were conducted in 2007 (spring, summer and autumn), 2008 (summer), 2009 (summer) collecting sea water, sediments, and organisms ranging from plankton and benthic invertebrates, to fish and sea birds. In 2007 two stations in Kongsfjorden was sampled, in 2008 and 2009 same stations in Kongsfjorden was sampled and one station in Liefdefjorden. At all stations the same type of samples were collected.. KEYWORD: contaminants, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, liefdefjorden, kongsfjorden, copol, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, environmental impacts, benthic food webs, arctic, no, ipy, ocean, oceans, persistent organic pollutants, contaminants in polar regions: dynamic range of contaminants in polar marine ecosystems, atlantic ocean, human dimensions, biomagnification, pelagic food webs, 
TITLE: Ptarmigan Dropsondes (Arctic reconnaissance) for 1950-1961. ABSTRACT: Dropsonde observations were made by the U.S. Air Force along the "Ptarmigan" track of its reconaissance program. This track was mainly over the Beaufort Sea and the western Arctic Ocean. Vertical profiles of geopotential height, temperature, and dewpoint temperature at various pressure levels are available for eleven years between 1950 and 1961 (excluding 1953) for the lower troposphere mainly below 500mb. In comparing the locations on the dropsondes to the locations on the aircraft reconaissance reports in ds360.0 [], DSS found that the dropsonde longitudes are off by 10 degrees. For dropsondes over the Western Hemisphere, the positions are 10 degrees east of the aircraft positions, and for the Eastern Hemisphere, they are 10 degrees west of the aircraft position.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, altitude, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, air temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, dropwindsondes, usa, ncar, geographic region, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Air Temperature and Thaw Depth, North Slope, Alaska: Field Measurements (1995-97) and Computed Values. ABSTRACT: This data product contains field data measurements of air temperatures and thaw depth (active-layer thickness) measured at locations in north-central Alaska, and modelled values of air temperatures and thaw depth extrapolated to an area encompassing the Kuparuk River basin of north-central Alaska. Air temperature and thaw depth were measured in the years 1995, 1996, and 1997; air temperature was measured at 10 core Flux Study plots and additional sites, and thaw depth was measured within each of seven ARCSS 1 km x 1 km grids. The data were collected to provide a basis for extrapolating thawing degree-days and thaw depth to the landscape scale (the Kuparuk River basin). Modelled air temperatures derived from the 1995 air temperature measurements are represented in 787 x 371 element matrices of thawing degree-day sums at weekly intervals for part of summer 1995. Thaw depth matrices were modelled using the interpolated thawing degree-day data, a vegetation map of the Kuparuk River basin, and a digital elevation model (DEM) of the same area. Modelled thaw depth is represented in 178 x 369 element matrices of active-layer thickness at weekly intervals for part of summer 1995, one time period in 1996, and 'end-of-season' (August 6) 1997.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, arctic, usa, noaa, thawing degree day, arctic system science, temperature loggers, opp9612647, degree days, north america, alaska, active-layer thickness, north slope, deadhorse, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice growth, melt, happy valley, ground-based observations, barrow, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, betty pingo, toolik lake, glaciers, ice sheets, seasonally frozen ground, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss, atqasook, nsf, opp, nsf, thawing degree-days, continent, active layer, kuparuk river basin, air temperature, steel measuring tape, usa, nsf, united states of america, active layer thickness, probes, soils, snow, ice, opp-9612647, polar, vertical location, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, land surface, arcss040, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, imnavait creek, national science foundation, west dock, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, ice depth, thickness, thaw depth, 
TITLE: Ionospheric Doppler Radars from the CEDAR Data Base at NCAR HAO. ABSTRACT: The Coupling, Energetics, and Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions (CEDAR) Data Base at NCAR HAO holds data collected from HF ionospheric doppler radars. The HF radars are organized into a community called SuperDARN. Eleven of these radars have data in the CEDAR Data Base. The basic parameters are the line-of-sight plasma irregularity velocity and velocity spread. Most of the HF radar data can be obtained from the contacts for each of the HF radars: 1. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Halley, Antarctica (75.5S, 26.6W). The CEDAR Data Base contains data from 6 campaigns between 1990 and 1995. The station has been in operation since 1988. The contact person is Michael Pinnock. The Halley HF radar is jointly supported by the British Antarctic Survey and the NSF Division of Polar Programs. 2. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Syowa, Antarctica (69.02S, 39.56E). The CEDAR Data Base contains data from one campaign in 1995. The station has been in operation since 1995. The contact person is Natsuo Sato. The Syowa HF radar station is operated by the National Institute of Polar Research in Japan. 3. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Kapuskasing, Canada (49.39N, 82.32W). Data from 15 campaigns since 1993 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The station has been in operation since 1993. The contact person is Michael Ruohoniemi. The station at Kapuskasing is operated by the Applied Physics Laboratory of The Johns Hopkins University with support from NASA and the NSF. 4. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Saskatoon, Canada (52.16N, 106.53W). Data from 15 campaigns since 1993 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The station has been in operation since 1993. The contact person is George Sofko. The Saskatoon HF radar is operated by the University of Saskathewan with support from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. 5. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Goose Bay, Canada (53.32N, 60.46W). Data for 25 campaigns since 1988 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The contact person is Michael Ruohoniemi. The Goose Bay HF radar is operated by the Applied Physics Laboratory of The Johns Hopkins University with support from the NSF. 6. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Hankasalmi, Finland (62.32N, 26.61E). Data for 7 campaigns since 1995 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The station has been in operation since 1995. The contact person is Mark Lester. The radar is operated by the Radio and Space Plasma Physics Group at the University of Leicester with support from the Particle Physics and Astronomy Council and the Finnish Meteorological Institute and the Swedish Meteorological Institute. 7. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Stokkseyri, Iceland (63.86N, 22.02W). Data for 11 campaigns since 1995 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The station has been in operation since 1994. The contact person is Jean-Paul Villain. The Stokkseyri HF radar is operated by CNRS LPCE and CNRS CETP with support from the Institut National des Sciences de l'Univers. 8. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Pykkvibaer, Iceland (63.86N, 19.20E). Data for 6 campaigns since 1996 are in the CEDAR Data Base. The station has been in operation since 1996. The contact person is Mark Lester. The HF radar station is operated by the Radio and Space Plasma Physics Group at the University of Leicester with support from the Particle Physics and Astronomy Council and support from the Finnish Meteorological Institute and the Swedish Meteorological Institute. 9. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Kerguelen Island (49.35S, 70.28E; 58.9 magS), operated by CNRS, France since July 2000. The radar is southward scanning and Syowa-East HF radar data are the most direct for 2-D merging of the Kerguelen velocity data. Data for one campaign in 2000 are currently in the CEDAR Database. Kerguelen summary plots are available via ftp at ftp:  canopus.cnrs-orleans.fr pub KER SMR-PS . 10. HF data from the SuperDARN station at the South African National Antarctic Expedition (SANAE) site in Antarctica (71.68S, 2.85W; 62.0 magS). SANAE is run by the University of Natal and the Potchefstroom University for Christelike Hoer Onderwys (PUCHE) and has been in operation since 1997. SANAE is westward scanning and Halley is the other HF radar for the most direct 2-D merging of SANAE velocity data. The Database contains data from 1 campaign in May 1999. 11. HF data from the SuperDARN station at Syowa-East, Antarctica (69.02S, 39.56E; 64.9 magS), operated by the National Institute of Polar Research in Japan since 1997. The radar is eastward scanning and Kerguelen HF radar data are the most direct for 2-D merging of the Syowa-East velocity data. Data for one campaign in 1999 are currently in the CEDAR Database. The Syowa SuperDARN website is at http:  www.uap.nipr.ac.jp SD . The SuperDARN site is: http:  sd-www.jhuapl.edu RADAR The CEDAR Data Base is accessible through the WWW and ftp, but users must have a valid access form, available from the WWW or ftp (see Access and Use constraints) or contact Barbara Emery (emery@hao.ucar.edu). See the WWW site for additonal information on accessing the data and Rules of the Road procedures. http:  cedarweb.hao.ucar.edu catalog Rules.html. KEYWORD: velocity spread, continent, plasma velocity, coupling, energetics, and dynamics of atmospheric regions, superdarn, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, ionosphere, doppler radars, cedar, scandinavia, particle speed, ncar, north america, ion flux, solar energetic particle flux, ground stations, aurorae, europe, finland, electric fields, electric currents, vertical location, polar, amd, us, doppler radar, earth science, super dual auroral network, ceos, iceland, usa, nasa, northern europe, ion velocity, antarctica, electron flux, radio detection and ranging, radar, solar energetic particle properties, canada, sun-earth interactions, thermosphere, amd, geographic region, hf, 
TITLE: P. GeoSuite, (2001 Census - Software and Data), Canada. ABSTRACT: Geosuite a powerful tool for data retrieval, query and tabular output, with software and data on a CD-ROM. Geosuite allows users to explore the links between all standard levels of geography and to determine geographic codes, names and population and dwelling counts. Geosuite includes a dissemination area (DA) reference map listing that facilitates identification of appropriate DA reference maps. Also the Geosuite CD-ROM includes the "1996 Enumeration Area (EA) to 2001 Dissemination Area (DA) Correspondence List" as a separate flat ASCII file. The Geosuite CD-ROM also includes the Reference Guide as a PDF file. This Reference Guide provides explanations of the various functions of this product. Catalogue number for CD-ROM: 92F0150XCB01000 ? for additional information visit the organization's web siteWith Geosuite, users may retrieve data, explore the links between geographic areas and obtain information on those areas. The information available includes 2001 population counts, 2001 dwelling counts and land area (except for federal electoral districts and enumeration areas), geographic codes, and names. In some cases, 1996 Census population counts (both final and adjusted) for growth calculations.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: Level 3.0 6-hourly gridded VAM analyses of ocean surface wind velocity (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov PRODUCTS p079.html ). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com  ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao  ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used ( http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata  ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR ( http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets  ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. The Level 3.0 data contains 6-hourly gridded VAM instantaneous analyses, centered at 0, 6, 12 and 18Z. The data sets are stored in the Hierarchical Data Format (HDF, http:  hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu ). All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data distributed in NetCDF format ( http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf  ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "analysis_20040101_v10l30flk.nc.gz" designates a level 3.0 (l30) data set containing VAM analyses for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, dmsp 5d-2, f14, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, buoys, dmsp 5d-3, f15, tmi, aqua, global ocean, radiometers, discover, amsr, trmm, adeos-ii, quikscat, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, nscat, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, advanced earth observing satellite-ii, geographic region, seawinds, indian ocean, special sensor microwave, imager, smmr, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, advanced microwave scanning radiometer, trmm microwave imager, tropical rainfall measuring mission, scatterometers, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, nasa scatterometer, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Globorotalia truncatulinoides (R) Mg Ca Water Temperature Calibration. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Globorotalia truncatulinoides (R) Mg Ca to water temperature calibrations from Indian Ocean core-top sediments and plankton tows. G. truncatulinoides (R) is a deep dwelling species that provides a Mg thermometer for the extremes of the permanent thermocline. Abstract Recent work has provided useful Mg Ca to water temperature calibrations for shallow-dwelling planktonic foraminifer species. Globorotalia truncatulinoides (right coiling (R)) is a deep-dwelling species that can serve as a source of information about the temporal variability in the water characteristics of the thermocline. We present a temperature calibration for the Mg Ca in the shell of G. truncatulinoides (R) and examine some of the practical issues associated with evaluating the usefulness of the technique. The Mg Ca in the primary and the secondary calcite of individual G. truncatulinoides (R) correlates exponentially with water column temperatures, showing a change of ~10% in the Mg Ca per 1C (R2 = 0.92). A limited comparison with plankton tow samples demonstrates that the average Mg Ca temperature was offset +1C from the average temperature calculated using the D18O calibration of O'Neil et al. [1969], and the Mg Ca temperatures have a range similar to the d18O temperatures. Comparisons of the [Mg] in the core top samples to water depth of deposition indicates that dissolution does not alter the measured value of Mg in the primary calcite.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, past global changes, igbp, plankton tow, thermocline, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, marine temperature gradients, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sediment, pages, ocean, ocean, lake records, isotopes, oceans, mg, ca, indian ocean, sediments, barents sea, 
TITLE: Canadian Ice Service Standard Ice Climate Products. ABSTRACT: This series consists of ice climate products produced by a statistical compilation of Canadian Ice Service (CIS) digital Regional ice charts from 1968 to the present; products include median of total concentration and ice type, frequency of ice events.To provide an updated climatology of ice conditions in Canadian navigable waters. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster, vector. Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: 49 Standard Parallel: 77 Longitude of Central Meridian: -100 Latitude of Projection Origin: 40 False Easting: 0 False Northing: 0 Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD27 Ellipsoid Name: CLARKE 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, alaskan coast, nunavut, northwest territories, sea surface, united states of america, northern hemisphere, ice types, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, sea ice, spectral, engineering, bering strait, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, queen elizabeth islands, great lakes, nova scotia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, king william island, radar, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, prince edward island, new brunswick, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, victoria strait, 
TITLE: JAMSTEC Hydrological Cycle Database. ABSTRACT: The Hydrological Cycle Database disseminates hydrological observation data on whole eastern Eurasia from the tropics to Arctic, in which characteristic hydrological cycles strongly influence climate system of the global scale and the continent scale.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, continent, precipitation amount, southeastern asia, atmospheric temperature, surface air temperature, fixed observation stations, asia, eastern asia, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, precipitation, precipitable water, humidity, geographic region, eurasia, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, 
TITLE: Monthly Means Of Sea Surface Temperature from the WDC-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The MMSST data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include monthly means of sea surface temperature for the Arctic, North Atlantic, North Pacific, and North Indian Oceans since 1983.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, mid-latitude, mmsst, north atlantic ocean, arctic, ocean temperature, north indian ocean, equatorial, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, russia, sst, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, usa, nasa, ships, ocean, monthly data, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, statistics, 
TITLE: Temperature and salinity from Great Wall Bay and Ardly Bay in 2005 2006. ABSTRACT: Temperature and Salinity were measured with SEB CTD 19plus in Great Wall Bay (G1,G2,G3,G4,G5) and Ardly Bay (A1,A2,A3,A4,A5) in Jan. 2006.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, ardly bay, 
TITLE: Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer data from NOAA-satellite acquired by DLR DFD. ABSTRACT: The available data set comprises NOAA-AVHRR data plus associated TOVS data and browse products; on-line access is offered by means of the Intelligent Satellite Data Information System ISIS, a service of the DFD within DLR at Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany. Coverage of NOAA-HRPT Raw Data includes Europe and North Africa. The images consist of 5 spectral bands. Spatial resolution is 1.1 km at nadir and is degraded to approximately 6 km towards the scan margins. Dynamic range (radiometric resolution) of the data provided is 10 bit. The datasets have the size of 2048 samples, the number of lines is depending on the duration of the passes; up to 130 MByte. The DFD acquires up to 6 overpasses daily. For further information look at the `infoboard` on ISIS. The data are available as: - Digital Quicklooks (800 kByte); online; Postscript-Format (bands 2 and 4 for daytime data, and bands 3 and 4 for night-time data). - Original digital products (up to 130 MByte); on magnetic tape or Exabyte. Access to the data: On-line access to data and information is provided by the Intelligent Satellite Data Information System ISIS, developed by DLR as a client   server configuration. It is representing the interface of DLR-DFD to users, providing an easy access to catalogue-, inventory-, browse- and general textual information. The URl is: http:  isis.dlr.de  Relevant procedures to access this system are described in a separate entry in the category 'Data Center' and may be queried by interested people. Access presumes the installation of the client configuration which can be easily done by the user on his computer configuration.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, near east, atmospheric temperature, germany, dlr, arctic, ocean temperature, north africa continental, noaa-10, atmospheric pressure measurements, noaa-14, noaa-12, noaa-11, humidity, spectral, engineering, land cover, sea surface temperature, infrared wavelengths, africa, trace gases, trace species, meteorology, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, biosphere, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, atmospheric chemistry, visible wavelengths, ocean, north atlantic, water vapor, cloud cover, oceans, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, north africa coastal, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, idn_node esrin, dlr, visible imagery, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, infrared imagery, air temperature, clouds, european coastal, ozone, tovs, scandic ocean, greenland-sea, barents-sea, mediterranean sea, northern africa, reflected infrared, avhrr, europe, polar, environmental mapping, cloud types, asia, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, land surface, european continental, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, oceanography, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Comparison of the structure and diversity of the benthic community of Cape Bird with Cape Hallett and Perseverance Harbour, Campbell Island. ABSTRACT: A series of quantitative sea bottom grab samples were collected from the benthos in the area of McDonald Beach and north to the ice cliffs, Cape Bird. Samples were collected from between 25 and 200m in depth with 7 samples in total analysed to determine the structure and diversity of the bottom community. The sampling was extended to Cape Hallett and Perseverance Harbour, Campbell Island for comparisons with Cape Bird.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, field surveys, cape bird, cape hallett, biosphere, antarctica, field investigation, benthic habitat, ocean, campbell island, amd, nz, grab samplers, amd, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, marine habitat, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Historical Meteorological and Climatological Data for Greenland [1853-1855]. ABSTRACT: Climatological data for Greenland [1854-1855] from the NOAA Central Library Climate Data Imaging Project. - Physical observations in the Arctic Seas made during the second Grinnell Expedition in search of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and other points on the west coast of Greenland. - Tidal observations in the Arctic Seas made during the second Grinnell Expedition in search of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor. KEYWORD: solid earth, atmosphere, ocean currents, continent, precipitation amount, precipitation (meteorology), atmospheric temperature, magnetic declination, arctic, clouds, air temperature, usa, noaa, greenland, precipitation, earth science information partners program, winds, north america, tidal currents, surface winds, polar, surface air temperature, cdip, earth science, ceos, cloudiness, tides, atmospheric winds, ships, cloud amount, frequency, geomagnetism, oceans, climate data imaging project, esip, geographic region, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Seismograph data from the David Glacier region near Terra Nova Bay to determine the origins of low magnitude seismicity in the area: brittle ice failure, basal shearing beneath the glacier, or tectonic events?. ABSTRACT: Temporary seismograph stations placed in the Transantarctic Mountains have recorded regular, low magnitude seismicity. The origin of the quakes could not be uniquely discriminated among brittle ice failure, basal shearing beneath the glacier or tectonic events. A targeted passive seismic array was placed in the David Glacier region to directly investigate the seismicity of the region by distinguishing the nature of the seismic events and to enable discrimination and separation of events that are associated with surface crevassing or glacial basal shear rather than tectonics. A temporary array of 9 broadband seismograph stations were deployed between the coastline and about 100 km inland with about 30-40 km station spacing using available outcrops. The seismograph array was deployed at the beginning of November 2003 and retrieved at the end of January 2004.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, seismology, earth science, ceos, earthquake occurrences, field surveys, terra nova bay, antarctica, field investigation, seismic profile, seismographs, amd, nz, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Air and Ground Surface Temperatures From the Kuparuk Basin, Alaska, 1994-1996. ABSTRACT: Air and ground surface temperatures from 31 sites in the Kuparuk Basin, Alaska, between 1994 and 1996, were measured using inexpensive miniature data loggers and a simplified instrument mounting system. The system was originally designed for recording winter air temperatures. Summer air temperatures have been adversely affected by solar heating and should be used with caution.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, continent, atmospheric temperature, hatdl, arctic, kuparuk basin, air temperature, daily air temperatures, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, united states of america, opp9415386, north america, alaska, north slope, hobo xt air temperature logger, polar, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, winter air temperature, arcss, laii, flux, arcss001, adcc, opp-9415386, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: INSTAAR Occasional Paper No. 55 Glacier Mass Balance and Regime: Data of Measurements and Analysis. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of glacier regime parameters observed between 1945 and 1998. Data include annual mass balances, ablation, accumulation, and equilibrium-line altitude of mountain and subpolar glaciers outside the two major ice sheets. All available sources of information, such as publications, archived data, and personal communications have been collected, and include time series of about 280 glaciers. Data have been digitized and quality checked.. KEYWORD: glaciers, nsidc, mass balance, arctic, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, usa, noaa, ablation zones, accumulation zones, sea level rise, global land, sea level change, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, glaciology, polar, tems, gtos, instaar, ablation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, glaciers, ice sheets, gosic, geographic region, g3os, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Gravity survey in Arctic waters, 1991 (project ARCTIC'91). ABSTRACT: The gravity survey was carried out in order to: a) investigate the crustal structure of the Lomonosov Ridge to elucidate its subsidence history, b) determine the nature of basement on the marginal plateaus Morris Jesup and Yermak c) obtain further data on the thickness of the oceanic crust to evaluate any dependence of crustal thickness with very slow spreading rate. Sample rate was 10 s, corresponding to 25 m to 150 m depending on ship's speed. The following instruments were used: KSS 31 25 sea gravity meter. The geographical coverage is as follows: Marine gravity data covering the Amundsen Basin, the Lomonosov Ridge, the Gakkel Ridge, the Morris Jesup Rise, the Nansen Basin and Yermak Plateau . Data are available on request, but with special arrangement.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, idn_node esrin, dlr, nansen basin, gravity field, lomonosov ridge, germany, dlr, arctic, sea floor, marine geophysics, structure of the oceanic lithosphere of the arctic ocean, gakkel ridge, ocean crust deformation, polar, vertical location, gravitational field, gravity survey, morris jesup rise, arctic'91, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, crust, bathymetry, seafloor topography, bedrock lithology, ships, ocean, marine gravity field, gravimeters, ocean plateaus, ridges, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, yermak plateau, crustal motion, amundsen basin, 
TITLE: The World Radiation Monitoring Center (WRMC) Baseline Surface Radiation Network (BSRN). ABSTRACT: The Baseline Surface Radiation Network (BSRN) is a project of the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) aimed at detecting important changes in the earth's radiation field which may cause climate changes. At a small number of stations (fewer than 40) in contrasting climatic zones, covering a latitude range from 800N to 900S (see station maps), solar and atmospheric radiation is measured with instruments of the highest available accuracy and at a very high frequency (minutes). The radiation data are stored together with collocated surface and upper-air observations and station `metadata' in an integrated database at the World Radiation Monitoring Center (WRMC). High accuracy BSRN radiation measurements are already used to validate the radiation schemes in climate models and to calibrate satellite algorithms. For questions, comments or remarks please contact the WRMC data manager at bsrnadm@geo.umnw.ethz.ch (mailtool at bottom of left frame). For questions concerning the quality of data please contact the WRMC quality manager at muller@geo.umnw.ethz.ch. [Summary extracted from the BSRN Homepage]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, western europe, fort peck, japan, arctic, western asia, south africa, western pacific ocean, budapest-lorinc, xilinhot, human health, balbina, marshall islands, atmospheric pressure measurements, estonia, alaska, net radiation, south america, humidity, spectral, engineering, thermometers, melanesia, oklahoma, air quality, barrow, africa, wind speed, kwajalein, switzerland, camborne, wind direction, solar radiation, australia, northern europe, air temperature at lw instrument height, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, gosic, gcos, cloud height, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, state of the ground, longwave radiation, middle east, longwave downward radiation, gosic, atmospheric radiation, continent, saudi arabia, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, illinois, billings, air temperature, hungary, total ozone amount, hemispheric solar spectral, mongolia, upward shortwave radiation, montana, europe, surface winds, polar, cloud height level, nigeria, pacific ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, fixed observation stations, oxygen compounds, cryosphere, goodwin creek, cloud base, chesapeake, atmospheric pressure, ultraviolet radiation, de aar, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, bondville, norway, momote, mississippi, ultraviolet radiance, south pole, regina, relative humidity at lw instrument height, atmospheric temperature, ny alesund, western africa, carpentras, aerosol optical depth, present weather, past weather, snow cover, north america, alice springs, sede boqer, france, station level pressure, human dimensions, meteorological stations, tateno, georg von neumayer, visibility, amd, ch, pressure at lw instrument height, thermal radiance, cloud optical depth, thickness, anemometers, antarctica, ultraviolet wavelengths, ocean, canada, water vapor, south pacific ocean, amd, ilorin, virginia, geographic region, indian ocean, maldives, snow depth, bermuda, british isles, boulder, brazil, shortwave radiation, germany, lindenberg, clouds, riyadh, radiation exposure, pyranometers, ozone, shetland islands, united states of america, scandinavia, payerne, snow, ice, syowa, cloud types, australia, new zealand, united kingdom, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, florianopolis, micronesia, outgoing longwave radiation, colorado, papua new guinea, israel, cloud base height, atlantic ocean, gosic, gaw, toravere, dew point temperature, uv radiation, southern africa, 
TITLE: Scharffenbergbotnen horizontal ice core 2006 (2.5km). ABSTRACT: Horizontal ice core taken from the main Blue ice area in scharffenbergbotnen, Heimefrontfjella. ~2.5km long ice core. Planned analyses: ions & isotopes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, coring devices, antarctica, paleoclimate, amd, fi, isotopes, amd, ice core records, ions, geographic region, 
TITLE: Topographical and geological surveys and biology and soil sampling of the area between the Pennell and Tucker Glaciers to the Oates Land coast in north Victoria Land. ABSTRACT: An area roughly bounded by the Matusevich Glacier (157, 30'E) in the west to the Tucker Glacier in the east and from 72 S north to the Oates Land coast was examined in reconnaissance fashion, including geological mapping and triangulation surveys. The southern limits mapped extended to the northern edge of the regions mapped in the 1962-63 season parties. Continuity of the geology was achieved between the western boundary of the Hallett geological map and the most eastern point, north of the Tucker Glacier. A total of 510 geological specimens were taken from 145 examined localities and used for age determination and bulk chemical analysis. The areas examined geologically include the Pennell Glacier to Arctic Institute Range, Central Rennick Glacier area, the east side of the Rennick Glacier to Lillie Glacier and from the Lillie Glacier to Tucker Glacier. More than 30 determinations of gravity were made during the course of the operation. 50 specimens of lichen, 14 soil and 10 moss samples were collected with precise positions located with reference to survey points. Biological observations while undertaking survey work was recorded also.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, geomorphology, oates land coast, earth science, ceos, field surveys, antarctica, metamorphic rocks, field investigation, tectonic landforms, processes, bedrock lithology, stratigraphic sequence, amd, nz, rocks, minerals, amd, visual observations, tectonics, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Measurements of the physical properties of Antarctic fast ice and their variations throughout the growth season. ABSTRACT: The physical properties of Antarctic fast ice were investigated throughout a full year of growth. The aim of the project was three fold; 1) to document the basic physical properties of Antarctic fast ice (salinity, temperature, crystal structure, brine volume, sub ice platelet thickness, ice thickness and snow cover depth and density) and their variations throughout the growth season, 2) to measure the energy fluxes associated with ice growth over the same period in order to assess the applicability of thermodynamic ice growth models developed for the Arctic to Antarctica sea ice and 3) to measure the nature and magnitude of propagating flexural gravity waves in the ice. Almost all of the measurements were conducted on second year ice at a site roughly 1.5km directly offshore from Scott Base. Several transects were made in late winter and spring in which the ice, snow and sub ice platelet thicknesses were measured over a much greater area. Micro-meteorological data was collected including in-ice temperature profiles, net radiation, wind direction and two levels of each wind speed, air temperature and humidity. Strain gauges were installed at the site over water 290 m deep. Three gauges were bolted to the ice surface in a rosette pattern, at 120 degree angles. This pattern enables not only the strain experienced by individual gauges to be recorded, but allows the maximum strain in the horizontal plain and the direction of wave propagation to be determined as well.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, salinity, icebergs, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ice temperature, field surveys, antarctica, field investigation, glaciers, ice sheets, sea ice, amd, nz, ice depth, thickness, oceans, amd, strain meter, mcmurdo sound, geographic region, ocean waves, ice growth, melt, gravity waves, snow depth, 
TITLE: Methane Flux Data, Alaska North Slope, 1994-1996. ABSTRACT: Methane fluxes, along with air and soil temperatures were collected at Happy Valley and Toolik Lake ARCSS LAII study sites during the summers of 1994 and 1995. The data were collected at varied times during the field season, from every other day to weekly. Water table manipulations were also done to determine the sensitivity of the wet tundra methane and carbon dioxide fluxes to changes in the water table.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, opp9318531, methane flux, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, alaska, north slope, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, soil gas, air, happy valley, ground-based observations, polar, carbon dioxide, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, water table, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, toolik lake, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, tundra, arcss013, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, methane fluxes, national science foundation, opp-9318531, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, methane, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Response of Polar, Tropical and Temperate Microalgae to Global Warming and Increased UV Radiation (UVR).. ABSTRACT: The data collected from this cruise are important in answering the following research questions on the marine ecosystems of the Bering Sea and Chukchi Sea: 1. What are the relationships among productivity, diversity of marine organisms, ocean environmental conditions, and sea ice conditions under global change? 2. Has the distribution of fish species changed in relation to the previous data collected in 1992? 3. How do marine ecosystems respond to global climate change?. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, bering sea, polar, biological classification, pacific ocean, ecological dynamics, community dynamics, arctic, earth science, biosphere, ultraviolet radiation, ships, ocean, plants, microalgae, geographic region, biodiversity functions, chukchi sea, atmospheric radiation, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Defense Mapping Agency Digital Elevation Models, USGS. ABSTRACT: Digital elevation data including slope, aspect, and some with solar illumination are provided. Data are registered to a 50 meter UTM map grid. The pixel size can be altered to meet user needs; data is viewer referenced. Specifications include: 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi block, fixed record length, and BCD. Data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. Elevation, slope, aspect or solar illumination data by itself are priced at $150.00, any combination of two terrain variables is priced at $200.00, any combination of three variables is priced at $250.00, and all four variables are priced at $300.00 per quadrangle. User determines cartographic application; 60 percent of 1:250,000 scale quadrangles are presently available. The date of digital data equals date of respective 1:250,000 scale quadrangle.. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, digital elevation model, arctic, aedd, geology, dem, wetlands, land use, united states of america, north america, alaska, geography, ground stations, lakes, satellite, terrestrial hydrosphere, terrain, us, wildlife, hydrology, topography, earth science, ceos, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, contours, surface water, landforms, rivers, streams, topographical relief, dod, dma, drainage, idn_node gsfc, usgs, edc, alaska, usgs, photography, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Vegetation History of Northern North America and Greenland - From Radiocarbon Dated Pollen and Plant Macrofossil Sites. ABSTRACT: This dataset is comprised of three Excel spreadsheets listing radiocarbon dates on the vegetation cover of northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland from the last glacial maximum to the present day. It includes data from pollen stratigraphic sites, radiocarbon data collected on macrofossils of terrestrial plants from nearly 800 sites, and radiocarbon data on terrestrial mammals interpreted in terms of paleo-biomes and paleo-associations.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Paleo-vegetation maps will be available on the Geological Survey of Canada web site and as a Geological Survey of Canda A-series publication. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Canadian Coastal Photographs Collection. ABSTRACT: This collection consists of photographs of selected shorelines along Atlantic and Arctic Canada. The photos are oblique views of the shore taken since the early 1970's from a helicopter flying less than 0.5 km offshore at altitudes ranging from 100 m to 300 m. The photos provide information about shoreline morphology, sediment characteristics, coastal infrastructure, e.g. wharves, and nearshore seabed conditions, as well as inshore wave and sea ice conditions.Series of 35mm slides or prints are taken intermittently to illustrate physical characteristics along selected coastlines during one interval in time (1-2 days). They provide a reference for the mapping of shoreline types and sediment characteristics, and are used in marine oil spill contingency planning. Photographs were taken along Arctic coasts because of the lack of vertical air photos. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, cliffs, geomorphology, shorelines, gcmd, arctic, north atlantic ocean, surveys, none, nunavut, northwest territories, marine, coastlines, beaches, northern hemisphere, north america, polar, nova scotia, earth science, aerial photos, shore, ceos, land surface, coastal processes, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, coastal landforms, processes, prince edward island, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Weekly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MOD10C1) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 columns by 3600 rows of global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 degree Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, swath, 
TITLE: Report of the International Tsunami Measurements Workshop. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: This publication (by James F. Lander and Harry Yeh, eds., 1995) contains scientific papers presented at the June, 1995, workshop in Colorado. 102 pages; xeroxed copy. PURPOSE: Study of Tsunamis SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: Parent FGDC G01144 CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, seismology, water level gauges, wave height gauges, north atlantic ocean, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, usa, noaa, earth science information partners program, visual observations, earthquake dynamics, ocean waves, north pacific ocean, barents sea, bering sea, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, world data center for solid earth geophysics, boulder, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, ocean, oceans, tsunamis, esip, atlantic ocean, chukchi sea, wdc, seg, boulder, 
TITLE: Toolik Snowfence Experiment: 1994-2002 Active Layer Depth. ABSTRACT: This data set contains active layer data collected for the Toolik Snowfence Experiment from 1994 to 2002. The Toolik Snowfence Experiment (part of the International Tundra Experiment network) examines the short- and long-term effects of increased snow depth (shortened growing season) and increased summer temperature on arctic tundra vegetation. The goal of this project is to assess potential changes in tundra plant communities in response to global climate change. The research project was funded by the following Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program grants: 1994 - 1998: OPP-9400083 -- ITEX   Comparative Responses of Moist and Dry Arctic Tundra to Altered Snow and Temperature Regimes 1999 - 2003: OPP-9907127 -- ITEX   Collaborative Research: Species Responses to Changes in Climate Across Arctic Gradients Using the North America ITEX Network (NATEX): Influences On Community and Ecosystem Processes 1999 - 2003: OPP-9996383 -- ITEX   Comparative Responses of Moist and Dry Arctic Tundra to Altered Snow and Temperature Regimes.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, active layer, arcss, laii, opp-9907127, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, opp9996383, frozen ground data center, united states of america, north america, arcss900, alaska, opp-9400083, active layer depth, probes, ground stations, toolik field station, polar, international tundra experiment, arctic system science data coordination center, opp9400083, opp-9996383, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ggd900, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, adcc, itex, opp9907127, national science foundation, frozen ground, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Parameters affecting sensory and metabolic adaptations in Antarctic vertebrates and invertebrates. ABSTRACT: The sense organs of three species of Antarctic fish and Antarctic octopus, scallops and collembolans were fixed for electron microscopy. Pigmented spots around the oral cavity of nemertean worms, the lateral line tissue of two fish species and the spinal cord from Pagothenia borchgrevinki were fixed for microscopy. Retinal samples of 8 species of Antarctic fish, the Antarctic octopus and some crustaceans were freeze dried for visual pigment analysis. The fluctuations in photopigment quantities over a 72 hour period in two species of Antarctic crustaceans using freeze dried samples of eyes from animals in their natural environment was investigated. The effects of elevated temperature on photopigment levels within the cell membrane and the crytoplasm was studied to determine the mechanism by which photopigment molecules are held in the membrane. Various tissues (spleen, liver, blood, etc) of two species of fish were sampled and freeze dried for studies on the nature of cold active enzymes. Blood samples of Dissostichus mawsoni were used to test the effectiveness of Antarctic fish blood antifreeze in the processing of meat. Digestive tissues from Antarctic nemertean worms were used to study the effectiveness of cold active proteolytic enzymes. The survival ability of different Antarctic species in contaminated water was tested. Water samples were analysed for chemical and biological activity. A freshwater mite was discovered in glacial melt water streams of the Taylor Valley.. KEYWORD: mollusks, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, arthropods, arctic, entognatha, perch-like fishes, ribbon worms, hexapods, polar, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, ray-finned fishes, antarctica, squids, bivalves, amphipods, isopods, animals, vertebrates, ocean, laboratory, cephalopods, fish, amd, nz, ross sea, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Year-round Urban Raven Surveys in Fairbanks, Interior Alaska 2004-2006. ABSTRACT: This dataset presents Raven (Corvus corax) survey data carried out for over two years at a supermarket parking lot (app. 300m*600m), strip mall, in Fairbanks, interior Alaska app. 120 miles south of the arctic circle. Data were collected bi-weekly, or with a higher frequency, on Sundays or Saturdays between 8 AM and 11 AM by driving on the parking lot for 15 minutes; detectability is believed to be 100 %. This results into unbiased surveys providing a snap shot in time. Other opportunistic surveys were included as well, e.g. collected during the week or from locations nearby. The parking lot represents a typical situation of Ravens in an urban habitat. Ravens were scanned for bands and marks, but none were found. Moult and age were also noted. Basic Raven behaviour is also reported, as well as state of the parking lot in regards to parked trucks and cars, food items, garbage, fast food left-overs, snow and climate. All other bird species were recorded as well, e.g. common gulls (Larus canus) in summer (almost no other species were seen). Bird abundance seems to be driven by food items on the parking lot, e.g. provided by an adjacent fast food restaurant and by left-overs from parties at the parking lot from the previous night. The numbers of Ravens at this study site are relatively small (app. 15 birds in winter and none in summer) and consistent patterns are shown. It is believed that the described situation applies to many other supermarket parking lots in the vicinity as well. It is suggested that these 2 years of data are unique and represent baseline information relevant for Ravens in the interior of Alaska; they are a simple but powerful snapshot in time and when put into an overall ecological context.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, urban ecology, arctic, winter, birds, animalia, aves, corvidae, spring, larus canus, united states of america, fall, crows, strip mall, north america, alaska, common ravens, corvus corax, polar, raven surveys, raven, earth science, ceos, passeriformes, animals, vertebrates, interior alaska, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Study of Benthic and Pelagic Arctic Marine Animals, Including Marine Invertebrates. ABSTRACT: This dataset describes the study of the benthic and pelagic arctic marine animals including bibliography and the marine invertebrates collection of the Zoological Institute RAN (Saint-Petersburg). This dataset exists in dBase format.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, census of marine life, animals, invertebrates, coml, echinoderms, arctic, earth science, arcod, biosphere, beaufort sea, arctic ocean biodiversity, bottom trawl, ipy, benthic habitat, ocean, international polar year, grab samplers, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, chukchi sea, barents sea, 
TITLE: Victoria Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon (carbon 14) samples collected during a regional mapping project on Victoria Island, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Cardbox files are multi-field databases that accommodate lengthy descriptive text storage. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, victoria island, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for the Northern Part of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for North part Novaya Zemlya derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Daily L3 25 km Brightness Temperature & Sea Ice Concentration Polar Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of land, ocean, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. This Level-3 gridded product (AE_SI25) includes brightness temperatures at 6.9 through 89.0 GHz and sea ice concentrations. Data are mapped to a polar stereographic grid at 25 km spatial resolution. All variables include daily ascending averages, daily descending averages, and daily averages. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format and are available from 19 June 2002 to present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, eos, arctic sea ice, passive microwave radiation, echo, usa, noaa, aqua, sea ice, imagery, spectral, engineering, amsr-e, sea ice concentrations, antarctic sea ice, remote sensing, polar sea ice, antarctica, brightness temperature, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system data information system, leads, oceans, microwave imagery, amd, geographic region, sea ice variability, continent, tbs, sea ice concentration, eos pm-1, modified bootstrap algorithm, eosdis, brightness temperatures, sea ice extents, ae_si25, earth science information partners program, microwave, modified nasa team algorithm, radiance, polar, southern ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, polynyas, passive microwave sea ice data, esip, 
TITLE: 1996 Population (Ecumene) Census Data, Canada. ABSTRACT: The parts of Canada making up the 1996 Settled Area, (or Population Ecumene), represents a selection of the 5984 Census Subdivisions (CSD) as defined by Statistics Canada for the 1996 Census. The selection process essentially removes those CSDs with very large areas and or very low populations. Some of British Columbia's CSD boundaries have been further modified to better conform to the distinctive settlement patterns in the Cordilleran regions. The 1996 Settled Area is an attempt to balance the needs of national scale choropleth mapping with the spatial reality that the majority of Canada's land area contains very few people. The Settled Area represents more than 98% of the Canadian population captured in the 1996 Census of Canada.To offer statistics for analysis for educational purposes and policy making. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: 49 Standard Parallel: 77 Longitude of Central Meridian: -95 Latitude of Projection Origin: 49 False Easting: 0 False Northing: 0 Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, ecumene, boundary surveys, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, population distribution, quebec, alberta, population size, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Tides and Water Level Stations. ABSTRACT: The Marine Environmental Data Service (MEDS) acquires, processes, quality controls, archives and distributes tide and water level (TWL) data reported on a daily to monthly basis from the DFO Canadian Hydrographic Service (CHS) water level gauging network. MEDS also operates a Tides and Water Levels Benchmark Database for the Canadian Hydrographic Service where information on the benchmarks from various DFO stations can be found. As Canada's national data centre, MEDS' historical tides and water level data archives presently hold over 30 million records with the earliest dating back before the turn of the century. Over 70,000 new hourly height observations and other higher resolution data are added on a monthly basis. Data are also exchanged annually with Environment Canada.Provides Marine Environmental Data Service (MEDS) Benchmark and Tide Station information with links to individual benchmark and tide station information. This service provides the following layers: BENCHMARKS - current benchmark information TIDE_STATIONS - current individual tide station locations. Included are links to specific MEDS tide station information.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, sea surface topography, united states of america, northern hemisphere, meds, north america, geobrowser, geoportal, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, tides, marine environment monitoring, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, sea surface height, canada, ocean, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Offshore and Coastal Canadian Samples Holdings - Physical Archive Database. ABSTRACT: This data set encompasses information about the curation of all geological sample material as part of a sample inventory management system for the physical holdings archived at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. The archive includes cores (both refrigerated and ambient), grabs, and other types of samples collected as part of research cruises by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic).This dataset is maintained for purposes of curation, providing baseline data and the ability to access (for geoscientific research) geological sample material archived at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, environmental geology, gcmd, mid-latitude, offshore canada, arctic, none, paleoclimate, stratigraphy, structural geology, age determinations, economic geology, marine geology, northern hemisphere, bedrock, north america, stratigraphic sequence, tectonics, coastal canada, gulf of st. lawrence, land records, marine sediments, polar, geochronology, erosion, sedimentation, maritimes, earth science, unconsolidated sediments, ceos, geophysics, land surface, igneous rocks, beaufort sea, metamorphic rocks, sedimentary rocks, environment, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, geological samples, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: U.S.S.R. Arctic Ice Island Radiosonde Observations, 1950-1991. ABSTRACT: This version of the Russian Ice Island raobs was provided by the Russian delegation to meetings at NCDC in November 1999.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, polar, altitude, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, weather stations, air temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, geopotential height, atmospheric winds, atmospheric pressure measurements, usa, ncar, humidity, radiosondes, ground stations, geographic region, rawinsondes, meteorological stations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Weekly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Data on the distribution and concentration of chlorophyll-a investigated in the Prydz Bay, East Antarctica from 2007 to 2008. ABSTRACT: The distribution and concentration of chlorophyll-a was investigated in the Prydz Bay East Antarctica during CHINARE-24.. KEYWORD: polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, r, v xuelong, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, nws, prydz bay, chla, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Small mammal sampling protocol for long-term ecological monitoring program.. ABSTRACT: Purpose: To focus on three species in the Rock Creek watershed of Denali National Park and Preserve in 1992: the northern red-backed vole, the tundra vole and the singing vole. Abstract: The small mammal investigations begun in the Rock Creek watershed of Denali National Park and Preserve in 1992 focused primarily on three species: the northern red-backed vole (Clethrionomys rutilis), the tundra vole (Microtus oeconomus), and the singing vole (Microtus miurus). Captures were also recorded of northern bog lemmings (Synaptomys borealis) and shrews (Sorex spp.), but demographic information was not collected on these species. Geographic Description: Rock Creek Watershed in the Denali National Park and Preserve. Denali National Park and Preserve is located in the central Alaska Range, approximately 210 km southwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. Methodology: Two competing trapping methods were employed for the assessment of population changes over time. Trapping grids, described by Otis et al. (1978), are used primarily for the estimation of population abundance, but are adaptable for the estimation of density. With traps in a grid configuration, traps are placed uniform distances apart in lines separated by the same distance as traps within a line, forming a rectangular trap pattern.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, denali national park and preserve, lemming, vole, ecological dynamics, small mammal monitoring, livetrapping, singing vole, stamina, arctic, shrews, sorex spp., study plots, united states of america, northern red-backed voles, microtus oeconomus, north america, alaska, long-term monitoring, rock creek watershed, polar, synaptomys borealis, plot configuration, trapping grids, microtus miurus, sampling, earth science, northern bog lemmings, ceos, denali park, ak, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, mammals, species, population interactions, tundra vole, marking technique, trapping webs, geographic region, clethrionomys rutilus, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, precipitation, humidity, soil temperature, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, continent, shortwave radiation, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, pyrgeometers, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: When the Weather is Uggianaqtuq: Inuit Observations of Environmental Change. ABSTRACT: Uggianaqtuq (pronounced OOG-gi-a-nak-took) is a North Baffin Inuktitut word that means to behave unexpectedly, or in an unfamiliar way. From the perspective of many hunters and elders in the Arctic, the weather has been uggianaqtuq in recent years. In this interactive, multi-media CD-ROM, Inuit from two communties, Baker Lake (Qamani'tuaq) and Clyde River (Kangiktugaapik) in Nunavut, Canada, share their observations and perspectives on recent environmental changes. The CD-ROM is a pilot project that uses media technology as an alternative way (as opposed to written reports) to document and communicate Inuit observations and knowledge. Maps, text, photos, video and music are integrated to help illustrate the changes Inuit have observed in their environment and the impacts on their livelihoods. The integrated components allow the user to search by topic or person; view interview clips in Inuktitut with English interpretations; view and print maps about environmental changes drawn by participants; view short videos with scenes from the communities; view summaries and photos of environmental changes and their impacts to the landscape and community life. Topics include sea ice, snow, wind, weather variability, changes in seasons, changes in activities, animals, and more. Please Note: This CD-ROM is Copyright Shari Fox, 2003 (the author). All rights reserved. This CD-ROM may not be copied or reproduced in part or in whole in any way without permission from the author. The CD-ROM is to be used for educational purposes only unless with written permission from the author. The research project was funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), grant number OPP -9906740, a doctoral fellowship from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), and an award from the Innovative Research Program at the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder (CU).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, biological classification, arthropods, arctic, weather unpredictability, lake ice, usa, noaa, precipitation, present weather, past weather, north america, sea ice, sea ice motion, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, rain, insects, glaciers, ice sheets, animals, vertebrates, atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, canada, snow, leads, oceans, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, glaciers, continent, icebergs, animals, invertebrates, inuit environmental knowledge, eastern canadian arctic, sea ice concentration, national snow and ice data center, nunavut, eosdis, cameras, usa, nsf, river ice, earth science information partners program, hexapods, visual observations, snow, ice, inuit, inuit climate knowledge, polar, ocean winds, seasonal temperature changes, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, baker lake, usa, nasa, arcss122, fish, esip, clyde river, topographic maps, 
TITLE: Model Output from MBL-GEM III for a Typical Tussock-Tundra Hill Slope, 1921-2100. ABSTRACT: This data set includes output data from the MBL-GEM III model for a typical tussock-tundra hillslope. The model outputs 154 different variables for 20 modeled square-meter plots. Modeled plots are spaced 5 m apart along a 100-m transect parallel to the water flow path down a uniform hillslope covered with tussock tundra. Diverse output variables include photosynthesis and evapotranspiration, carbon and nitrogen storage, and soil moisture and respiration, among others. Yearly model results are available for the years 1921 through 2100, with climate drivers based on historical reconstruction of climate and carbon dioxide conditions (for 1921-2000) and two possible future climate scenarios (warmer and wetter climate versus warmer and drier climate, for 2001-2100). Each file included in this 40-file data set contains simulation results for one of the 20 cells for the entire time period, based on one of the two predicted climate scenarios.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nitrogen translocated from foliage, root nitrogen, modeling, alpine, tundra, respiration rate, microbial respiration, ecological dynamics, arctic, lignin, usa, noaa, arctic system science, plant respiration, total plant nitrogen, photosynthesis, sapwood carbon, carbon, alaska, nitrogen loss from ecosystem, climate predictions, models, nitrogen compounds, wfps, mbl-gem model, nitrogen deposition, nitrogen inputs, carbon in litter fall, biosphere, extractives, soil nitrogen, extractives carbon, leaf carbon, atmospheric chemistry, nitrogen in litter fall, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, total soil carbon, tussock tundra, air temperature, sapwood nitrogen, usa, nsf, temperature, soils, polar, litter, extractives nitrogen, lignin nitrogen, leaf, humus, net primary production, national science foundation, net nitrogen mineralization, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, environmental models, atmospheric co2, cellulose carbon, humus carbon, arcss096, leaf nitrogen, north america, molecular nitrogen, soil inorganic nitrogen, percent water filled pore space, par, opp-9732281, arctic system science data coordination center, cellulose nitrogen, gpp, lter0221000, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, roots, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, opp9732281, ecosystem functions, heartwood nitrogen, total plant carbon, climate scenarios, cellulose, litter characteristics, geographic region, arcss, kuparuk river basin, arcss, laii, soil respiration, total ecosystem carbon, total ecosystem nitrogen, vegetation, root carbon, climate models, united states of america, lter-0221000, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, earth science, lignin carbon, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, adcc, npp, humus nitrogen, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ecosystems, nitrogen uptake, heartwood carbon, leaf characteristics, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Underwater Data from the LEO-15 Nodes: Profile Data from Node B. ABSTRACT: The LEO-15 Nodes are the center of our underwater research and are located 3 (Node A) and 4.5 (Node B) miles off the New Jersey coast near Tuckerton. The nodes record data on water temperatures, salinity, clarity, wave height, current speeds etc. Weekly Plots of Node B CTD Data: On the ocean floor at Node B, we have an instrument that is programmed to move from the ocean floor (12 meter depth) up to a depth of 2.5 meters from the surface. On it's way up to the surface, the CTD profiler records data on temperature, salinity, density, clarity (optical back scatter) and fluorescence (phytoplankton algae) content. These graphs are composite plots of all the top to bottom profiles taken during the past two weeks. Here you can see the trends in ocean physics, and biological activity during the entire summer.. KEYWORD: continent, salinity, wind-driven circulation, earth science, water temperature, wave frequency, ocean temperature, wave height, wave speed, direction, usa, nasa, sea surface topography, bathymetry, seafloor topography, sea surface height, water depth, sst, north america, wave length, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, ocean waves, ocean circulation, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Dataset of CTD from the 6th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1989 1990. ABSTRACT: From Jan. of 1990 to Mar. of 1990, Thirty-four CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay. This data set include:Site No.;Latitude,Longitude,Start-Time(LT),Bottom Depth(m),Cable Angle. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Terrestrial Ecosystem Model Output for Western Arctic Linkage Experiment (WALE). ABSTRACT: These data were obtained by running the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) with three different climate data sets over the Western Arctic Linkage Experiment (WALE) domain, which includes Alaska and the Yukon Territory. The carbon fluxes were compared with fluxes from the Biome-BGC model, and the water fluxes were compared with fluxes from the pan-Arctic Water Balance Model (PWBM). Data coverage is from 1980 through 2001. The data consist of fourteen binary file downloads, containing monthly gridded output in EASE-Grid format. Variables include gross primary production (GPP), net primary productivity (NPP), heterotrophic respiration, carbon flux, evapotranspiration, runoff, and soil moisture. PLEASE NOTE: These data and documentation files have not undergone the normal ADCC quality control procedures. This data set will not receive routine NSIDC User Services support until ADCC staff have completely prepared the data for publication. Until this disclaimer has been removed, users should send questions and comments about this data set to nsidc@nsidc.org. NSIDC will forward these inquiries to the PI for resolution. These data are archived at the Western Arctic Linkage Experiment (WALE) data site.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, heterotrophic respiration, soil moisture, water content, respiration rate, ecological dynamics, arctic, evapotranspiration, usa, noaa, arcss153, carbon flux, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, opp-0095024, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, yukon territory, western arctic linkage experiment, polar, carbon dioxide, models, earth science, runoff, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, ecosystem functions, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, wale, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: BIGFOOT FIELD DATA FOR NORTH AMERICAN SITES, 1999-2003. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BigFoot project gathered field data for selected EOS Land Validation Sites in North America from 1999 to 2003. Data collected and derived for varying intervals at the BigFoot sites and archived with this data set include FPAR, nitrogen content, allometry equations, root biomass, LAI, tree biomass, soil respiration, NPP, landcover images, and vegetation inventories.Each site is representative of one or two distinct biomes, including the Arctic tundra; boreal evergreen needleleaf forest; temperate cropland, grassland, and deciduous broadleaf forest; desert grassland and shrubland. The project collected multi-year, in situ measurements of ecosystem structure and functional characteristics related to the terrestrial carbon cycle at the sites listed in Table 1. Companion files include documentation of measurement data, site and plot locations (Figure 2), and plot photographs for the SEVI and TUND sites (Figure 3).BigFoot Project Background: Reflectance data from MODIS, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer onboard NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) satellites Terra and Aqua, was used to produce several science products including land cover, leaf area index (LAI), gross primary production (GPP), and net primary production (NPP). The overall goal of the BigFoot Project was to provide validation of these products. To do this, BigFoot combined ground measurements, additional high-resolution remote-sensing data, and ecosystem process models at six flux tower sites representing different biomes to evaluate the effects of the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem characteristics on MODIS products. BigFoot characterized up to a 7 x 7 km area (49 1-km MODIS pixels) surrounding the CO2 flux towers located at six of the nine BigFoot sites. The sampling design allowed the Project to examine scales and spatial patterns of these properties, the inter-annual variability and validity of MODIS products, and provided for a field-based ecological characterization of the flux tower footprint. BigFoot was funded by NASA's Terrestrial Ecology Program.. KEYWORD: konz, ir co2 analyzer, alaksa, manitoba, lai, temperate mixed forest, north america, massachusetts, cropland, validation, modis, barrow, tallgrass prairie, harvard forest lter, kansas, sevi, temperate needleleaf forest, canada, earth observing system data information system, continent, tund, bigfoot, infrared carbon dioxide analyzer, landcover, soil respiration, illinois, vegetation, sevilleta lter, fpar, harv, agro, eosdis, desert grassland, agriculture, allometry, earth science information partners program, konza prairie, soils, nobs, boreal forest, earth science, usa, nasa, field investigation, npp, arctic tundra, bondville, esip, new mexico, boreas, 
TITLE: AVHRR Polar 1 Km Level 1B Data Set. ABSTRACT: Please note that the machine on which these AVHRR data are processed has reached its life expectancy and will no longer be available as of 02 June 2008 until further notice. NSIDC collects and archives 1.1 km High Resolution Picture Transmission (HRPT) and Local Area Coverage (LAC) Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) imagery. Original data are from recorded and rebroadcast LAC images for both polar regions and from several HRPT receiving stations, including McMurdo, Palmer, Casey, Fairbanks, Prince Albert, and Tromso. NSIDC receives these data from a polar subset of the EROS Data Center (EDC) Global Land 1 km AVHRR Data Set and from the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, which collects Antarctic HRPT data from the McMurdo and Palmer stations. NSIDC received LAC data for the Southern Hemisphere through 1998 from a University of Colorado Domestic Satellite (DOMSAT) receiver and from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Satellite Active Archive (SAA) after 1998. These sources provide nearly complete coverage of sea ice, land ice, and polar land in the north and south polar regions, at 1.1 km resolution for all five bands of the AVHRR sensor. Data extend from April 1992 through the present for the Southern Hemisphere, and from August 1993 through the present for the Northern Hemisphere. Archived scenes, browse imagery, and information on location, time of acquisition, image size, and data quality are available via the AVHRR Polar 1 Km Level 1B Data Set Product Web site.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, arctic, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, lac, noaa-10, north america, noaa-12, imagery, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, north pacific ocean, thermal infrared, infrared wavelengths, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, northern europe, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, visible wavelengths, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, canada, ocean, amd, geographic region, hrpt, continent, visible imagery, north atlantic ocean, noaa poes, infrared imagery, eosdis, greenland, earth science information partners program, baffin bay, sensor counts, reflected infrared, avhrr, europe, antarctic, polar, bering sea, amd, us, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, si daac, southern ocean, nsidc daac, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, iceland, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, amundsen sea, daac, snow ice, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: SCAR (03-04) Epoch GPS Campaign. ABSTRACT: Antarctic plate movement monitoring geodynamics research into the problems of the international Antarctic concern to scholars over the years large-scale, long-period research project belonging to the Antarctic environment of long-term changes in the areas of study. Beginning in 1992, SCAR organize and coordinate a dozen countries participated in more than 30 Antarctic stations consecutive annual 22 days of the Antarctic GPS measurement battle together. Our country from the "Eighth Five-Year Plan" to begin this research in the field of Antarctic two stops from the beginning of 1994 to participate in the international cooperative research. GPS international joint testing by ICSU's Scientific Committee of Antarctic Geodesy and Geographic Information Working Group (SCAR-WGGGI) organization and implementation of an international large-scale cooperation projects. Its purpose and significance lies in: 1) Measurement of the Antarctic Plate and the adjacent plate, as well as micro-plate relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; 2) to identify all the Antarctic plate to the internal relative motion between the shell; 3) reunification of the Antarctic, the vertical system of benchmarks to determine the tide of the Antarctic station elevation above sea level; 4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement, "the interaction of global and Antarctic" scientific research. The International Alliance GPS measurement time for the 2004 1 on 20 day 00:00 (UTC) -2004 In February 10 24:00 (UTC), a cumulative time of 22 days, observing day of January 13 to February 17, more than the stipulated time observation for two weeks. Every six hours every day to check the work of an instrument, to change every two days battery backup to ensure adequate back-up battery power. Observation period, three power stations, but the backup battery fully prepared, no power outages occurred apparatus. Daily 23:50 (UTC), on time and the work of inspection equipment, ready to shut down and transfer data. 23:59 shutdown, and quickly check whether the antenna in the leveling and high volume of check antenna. 0:01 the next day replacement of permit boot, to continue the second day of observation.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, north atlantic ocean, united states of america, north america, amd, cn, tectonics, caribbean sea, reference systems, gps receivers, alabama, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, plate tectonics, global positioning system, curacao, ocean, andaman islands, tropics, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km Equal Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid) Day (MYD29P1D) data set contains fields for Sea Ice by Reflectance, Sea Ice by Reflectance Spatial QA, Ice Surface Temperature (IST), and Ice Surface Temperature Spatial QA in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. The fields Sea Ice by IST and Combined Sea Ice that were in Version 4 (V004) were removed from Version 5 (V005). MYD29P1D V005, the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, consists of 954 km x 954 km tiles of 1 km resolution data gridded in the Lambert Azimuth Equal Area map projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Daily Soil Surface Temperatures and Temperatures at Depths from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The DSSTTD data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include daily soil surface temperatures and temperatures at depths for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, surface, soil surface temperature, arctic, asia, earth science, land surface, usa, nasa, dssttd, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, soil depth, eastern europe, russia, daily data, soil temperature, ground stations, geographic region, soils, eurasia, europe, 
TITLE: Greenland Climate Network (GC-Net) Data. ABSTRACT: As of the 1999 field season, 18 automatic weather stations (AWS) are collecting climate information on Greenland's ice sheet. Each AWS is equipped with a number of instruments to sample the following: - air temperature, wind speed, wind direction, humidity, pressure - accumulation rate at high temporal resolution to identify and resolve individual storms - surface radiation balance in visible and infrared wavelengths - sensible and latent heat flux fluxes - snowpack conductive heat fluxes hourly average data are transmitted via a satellite link (GOES or ARGOS) throughout the year. In addition, measurements are stored in solid state memory. The system is powered with two 100 Ah batteries, charged by a 10 or 20 W solar panel. The satellite data-link is powered by two separate 100 Ah batteries connected to a 20 W solar panel. This setup guarantees continuous data recordings and storage, even in the case of satellite transmission failure. The expected lifetime of the instrumentation is 5 years. More information about GCNET is available online. Link to: "http:  cires.colorado.edu steffen gc-net gc-net.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, argos data collection and position location system, air temperature, greenland, north america, net radiation, humidity, noaa geostationary operational environmental satellites, snow, ice, surface winds, gc-net, arws, polar, surface pressure, reflectance, goes, fixed observation stations, parca, earth science, cryosphere, program in arctic regional climate assessment, outgoing longwave radiation, climate, usa, nasa, snow, ice temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, water vapor, argos, automatic remote weather station, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, 
TITLE: Polar Orbiting and Geostationary Satellite Data from Dundee University via WWW. ABSTRACT: The National Environment Research Council (NERC) Satellite Station at Dundee University (UK) server address on the WWW is 'http:  www.sat.dundee.ac.uk '. The Natural Environment Research Council, established by Royal Charter in 1965, has responsibility for planning, encouraging and carrying out research in the physical and biological sciences which explain the natural processes of the environment. The NERC satellite station at Dundee University has been systematically recording HRPT data from NOAA satellites on a daily basis since the launch of the prototype 3rd generation NOAA satellite TIROS-N in October 1978. It also recorded data from the CZCS on NIMBUS-7 between August 1979 and the end of the mission in December 1986. SeaWiFS, NIMBUS-7's replacement was launched on 1st August 1997 and Dundee is receiving and archiving this data. MODIS data from EOS AM PM satellites (Terra, Aqua) will also be archived. HRPT data is stored on magnetic tape and optical disk and is available from Dundee for all NOAA satellite passes from 1978 onwards. Formats include raw data on exabytes and CD-ROMs, processed images, high quality enhanced photographic enlargments, photographic browse files etc. Data is also available over the network from the web site. The quicklook archive contains sampled images from every NOAA satellite pass received at Dundee. The images are sampled to contain the complete pass in each of the 5 AVHRR channels plus a Normalized Difference Vegetation Index. The images are also corrected for earth curvature and have a grid overlay showing coastlines and latitude longitude lines. Browsing the archive to search for specific areas or features is made easier with access to our database of all passes we have received. Thumbnail images allow those with slow network connections to view a series of small images for quick comparisons or when searching for major features.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, advanced very high resolution radiometer, mid-latitude, arctic, sky cover, czcs, noaa-15, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, noaa-10, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-15, russia, noaa-14, noaa-13, noaa-12, noaa-11, tiros-n, humidity, spectral, engineering, nerc, terrestrial hydrosphere, vegetation index, ocean chemistry, infrared wavelengths, africa, hourly data, atmospheric phenomena, vegetation cover, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, biosphere, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-13, atmospheric chemistry, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, continent, visible imagery, infrared imagery, biological oceanography, greenland, esa, esrin, europe, polar, ftp, idn_node gsfc, nerc, du, cryosphere, geostationary meteorological satellite-1, gms-1, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, cloud amount, frequency, earth observing system, aqua, storms, terra, television infrared observation satellite-n, aqua, nimbus-7, snow cover, north america, www, grid data, noaa geostationary operational environmental satellites, modis, trace gases, trace species, goes, coastal zone color scanner, visible wavelengths, canada, water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-5, seawifs, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, chlorophyll concentration, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, hrpt, vegetation, clouds, meteosat, earth observing system, terra (am-1), ndvi, reflected infrared, snow, ice, avhrr, pigments, cloud types, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, noaa-8, noaa-9, noaa-6, noaa-7, noaa-5, 
TITLE: GLDAS VIC Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 1.0 x 1.0 degree Subsetted V001 (GLDAS_VIC10SUBP_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) Model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS VIC model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 001 Surface pressure Pa 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 085 Average layer soil temperature K 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^2 111 Net shortwave radiation W m^2 112 Net longwave radiation W m^2 121 Latent heat flux W m^2 122 Sensible heat flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average surface temperature K 155 Ground heat flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 3 vertical levels each for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) and Soil Temperature (PDS 085) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, climate indicators, eosdis, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Data set of Imaging Riometer at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004. ABSTRACT: The Imaging Riometer is used to measure cosmic noise absorption caused by ionosphere with 8 by 8 antennas. It can monitor cosmic noise absorption at ionosphere D-region with spatial dimension of 300300 km. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research in Japan. This is in accordance to the scientific agreement between the two Institutes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, imaging riometers, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, radio wave, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Daily L3 12.5 km Brightness Temperature, Sea Ice Concentration, & Snow Depth Polar Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite, provides global passive microwave measurements of land, ocean, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. This Level-3 gridded product (AE_SI12) includes brightness temperatures at 18.7 through 89.0 GHz, sea ice concentration, and snow depth over sea ice. Data are mapped to a polar stereographic grid at 12.5 km spatial resolution. Sea ice concentration and brightness temperatures include daily ascending averages, daily descending averages, and daily averages; snow depth over sea ice data is a five-day running average. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format and are available from 19 June 2002 to present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, tbs, sea ice concentration, eos pm-1, arctic, modified bootstrap algorithm, sea ice extent, eos, passive microwave radiation, echo, usa, noaa, eosdis, brightness temperatures, aqua, earth science information partners program, sea ice, imagery, spectral, engineering, microwave, amsr-e, modified nasa team algorithm, radiance, polar, sea ice concentrations, snow cover over sea ice, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, polar sea ice, antarctica, snow depth over sea ice, daac, nasa, brightness temperature, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, ae_si12, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, microwave imagery, amd, esip, geographic region, snow depth, 
TITLE: Heterotrophic Bacteria and Protists in the Upper Water Column of the Central Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: This data set contains information on heterotrophic bacteria and protists in the upper water column of the central Arctic Ocean, collected during the Canada U.S. 1994 Arctic Ocean Section, July-September 1994. The data include measurements of distribution, general composition, and activity of heterotrophic protists, and distribution of bacteria.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, biological classification, aos, ecological dynamics, phagotrophic protist abundance, arctic, arctic ocean water column, opp9400218, opp-9400218, phagotrophic protist biomass, usa, noaa, arcss053, phagotrophic protists, particulate organic carbon, bacterivory, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, division of ocean sciences, arctic ocean section, carbon, protists, microalgae, phytoplankton, aquatic ecosystems, heterotrophic bacteria, heterotrophic protists, ocean chemistry, ctd rosette, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, office of polar programs, ecosystem functions, arctic ocean carbon cycle, ships, primary production, ocean, choanoflagellates, grazing dynamics , plant ecology, flagellates, oceans, geographic region, heterotrophic microbes, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, arctic ecosystem, niskin bottles, abundance, ciliates, nanoplankton, biomass dynamics, usa, nsf, bacteria, archaea, plants, plankton, bacteria productivity, autotrophic microbes, polar, biomass, zooplankton, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, adcc, national science foundation, diatoms, aos transect, global change research program, dinoflagellates, dissolved organic carbon, central arctic ocean, 
TITLE: CLPX-Satellite: Multi-angle Imaging Spectroradiometer (MISR) Products. ABSTRACT: This data set includes Level 1B1 radiance (all angles), Level 1B2 georectified terrain, Level 2 land surface, and an ancillary geographic product for the Large Regional Study Area (LRSA) of the Cold Land Processes Field Experiment (CLPX) in northern Colorado and southern Wyoming. Data were collected between 15 February and 15 May 2002 and the same time period in 2003. Data are available for order on CD-ROM. The Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer (MISR) views Earth at nine widely spaced angles via radiometrically and geometrically calibrated images in four spectral bands at each of the nine angles, to provide global images with high spatial detail. Global spatial sampling is provided at 275 and 1100 meters. These images provide accurate measures of the brightness, contrast, and color of reflected sunlight.. KEYWORD: continent, terra, reflected spectral radiance, surface radiative properties, arctic, misr, visible radiance, usa, noaa, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, united states of america, north america, spectral, engineering, cold land processes field experiment, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, radiance, clpx, arctic radiances, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, colorado, wyoming, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, multi-angle imaging spectroradiometer, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: CODAR Real time Long range vector fields. ABSTRACT: CODAR is used to measure the surface currents of the coastal ocean. A transmitter sends out a radio frequency that bounces off the ocean surface and back to a receiver antenna. Using this information and the principles of the Doppler shift, CODAR is able to calculate the speed and direction of the surface current. These calculations are made at about every half mile across the surface and extend as far as about twenty miles offshore. The following Data is available online: Raw Vector Field: The raw surface current is the unprocessed data measured by CODAR. Therefore these velocity fields are the summation of all sources of current, including tides and wind. Tidal Vector Field: This vector field represents the component of the raw velocity that is caused by tidal forcing. Detided Vector Field: The detided vector field contains all the surface currents shown in the raw velocity field with the exception of the tidal currents. Using the above periods, a predicted tide is calculated and then subtracted from the raw data field. Averaged Vector Field : The Averaged vector field is a 36 hour average of the detided field. Inertial Vector Field: The inertial vector field is calculated using a least squares fit to the detided data over the most recent 36 hours.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, continent, salinity, tidal height, wind-driven circulation, tidal components, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, tides, sea surface topography, coastal processes, sea surface height, north america, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, ocean circulation, tidal currents, 
TITLE: Hydrographic Atlas of the Southern Ocean Data. ABSTRACT: The hydrographic atlas consists primarily of gridded fields of temperature, salinity and oxygen at 42 standard depths with a resolution of 1x1 degrees south of 30 degrees South. Additionally hydrographic station data are available as a separate data set. The idea to compile this hydrographic atlas of the Southern Ocean was prompted by a considerable increase in the number of observations for the Southern Ocean during the last two decades. A large collection of historical data not incorporated into previous work (&Climatological Atlas of the World Ocean&, Levitus, 1982; &Southern Ocean Atlas&, Gordon, Molinelli, Baker, 1982) was used in addition to the data from these atlases. Data from more than 38.000 stations were validated very carefully. Gridded fields were calculated subsequently by Objective Interpolation. The maps include error maps which allow estimates of the reliability of the analyzed parameter field. The atlas was produced in cooperation with AWI in Bremerhaven (Germany) and the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute in St. Petersburg (Russia). Many other institutions have provided data and many scientists have freely shared their data and knowledge to support the project. The validated station data set and the gridded data can be obtained. The atlas is available for DM 500. including shipping (surface mail). All texts, tables and graphics from the Atlas can be found in the World Wide Web: &#039;http:  www.awi.de en home &#039;. The gridded data set is available via FTP: &ftp.awi-bremerhaven.de pub TPH tsoasc.grd.Z&. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, idn_node esrin, dlr, moorings, germany, dlr, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, nitrate, open-source project for a network data access protocol, amd, de, buoys, earth science information partners program, physical oceanography, gridded hydrographic data, oxygen, polar, salinity, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, earth science, phosphate, ceos, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, silicate, ocean, dods, oceanography, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, salinity, density, esip, geographic region, opendap, hydrographic atlas, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Snow Pit Data from Greenland Summit, 1987. ABSTRACT: Snow pit and snow sample data are included from the Summit area of Greenland from 1987. One 2-meter snow pit was dug and sampled in 1987 with a 3-cm sampling interval. Four 4-meter snow pits were dug and sampled in 1987 with a 3-cm sampling interval. One 6-meter snow pit was dug and sampled in 1987 with a 3-cm sampling interval. Chemistry (H+), stable isotopes (Ca, Cl, Na, K, Mg, NH4, NO3, SO4, MSA), oxygen isotope information (18O), beta surface snow samples were collected from the snow pits. Some general weather observations were collected during the 6-meter snow pit acquisition.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, arcss, gisp2, opp8619158, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, usa, noaa, potassium (k), arctic system science, sodium (na), calcium (ca), gisp2, greenland, usa, nsf, arcss048, sulfate (so4), nitrate (no3), north america, acidity (h+), greenland ice sheet project ii, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, snow density, polar, methylsulfonic acid (msa), arctic system science data coordination center, chloride (cl), earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, ammonium (nh4), adcc, snow pits, opp-8619158, national science foundation, magnesium (mg), geographic region, oxygen isotopes, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Mullica River National Estuarine Research Reserve Water Quality Monitoring. ABSTRACT: Water quality monitoring is conducted, for all 22 National Estuarine Research Reserve (NERR) sites, at two locations within or adjacent to the Reserve. These two locations monitor a reference non-impacted site (baseline condition) and a non-point source pollution site. The following parameters are measured at least every 30 minutes: water temperature, conductivity, salinity, dissolved oxygen (percent saturation and concentration mg L), pH, turbidity, and water depth. All water quality data loggers (YSI&#039;s) are deployed from a known depth from the bottom at each site. The Jacques Cousteau  Mullica River National Estuarine Research Reserve (NERR) site is located on the northeast coast of the United States on the Atlantic Ocean. The estuary is near Tuckerton, New Jersey about 14 kilometers north of Atlantic City. All four locations can be characterized by having no macroalgae and fast moving tidal currents. All sites are in an undisturbed area with little impact from development or pollution. There are four sampling stations: 1) Buoy 126 (B126) (39 deg 30.478&#039; N, 74 deg 20.308&#039; W) - is located three kilometers from Little Egg Inlet on the eastern side of Great Bay and is 100 meters from the nearest land which is a natural marsh island. This is a naturally deep area which has never been dredged. It is located about 0.5 kilometer from an area in the intracoastal waterway which is dredged regularly. The dredged material is a coarse sand. The data logger at this location is attached to Intracoastal Waterway Buoy 126 and is the closest monitoring station to Little Egg Inlet. 2) Buoy 139 (B139) (39 deg 29.883&#039; N, 74 deg 22.873&#039; W) - is located 4 kilometers from buoy 126 on the western side of Great Bay and is located about one to one and one-half kilometers from land. The closest land form is an extensive salt marsh about 1.5 kilometers wide which borders the upland area. This area is dredged on a on a regular basis every five to six years to maintained the channel at a depth of eight feet by the Army Corp of Engineers. The surrounding depth of the bay is about five to six feet deep. This site is characterized by having maximum currents of about 1.5 knots with a muddy sand bottom and with little structure or shell. The average depth is 2.47 meters with a range of 1.77 to 3.29 meters. The average pH is 8.0 with a range of 7.2 to 8.5 and salinity values averaged 26.1 with a range of 12.1 to 32.8 ppt. 3) Chestnut Neck (NECK) (39 deg 32.872&#039; N, 74 deg 27.676&#039; W) - is located 12 kilometers up the Mullica River from the mouth of the river. The River begins at a line drawn between Graveling Point and Oysterbed Point on the northwestern side of Great Bay. The Mullica River at this location is quite wide, about 250 meters. The data logger is attached to the dock of a small marina along the southern shore of the river adjacent to the main channel. This location has never been dredged. The average depth at this location is 0.87 meters with a range of from 0.00 to 1.48 meters. The depth in the middle of the Mullica River at this location is about six meters. The pH averages 7.3 for the year with a range of from 4.4 to 8.1. The average salinity here is 14.0 with a range of 0 to 25.4 ppt. The site is characterized by having tidal currents of less then one knot, during both ebb and flood tide, with a sandy bottom. 4) Lower Bank (BANK) (39 deg 35.618&#039; N, 74 deg 33.091&#039; W) - is located 13 kilometers upriver of the Chestnut Neck location. The Mullica River at this site is about two hundred maters wide. The data logger is attached to a bridge going over the Mullica River which was rebuilt three years ago and is located in the center of the river. The northern bank of the river is sparsely developed with single family houses and has a steep bank about five meters high. The southern shore has an extensive marsh and fresh water wetland area about three kilometer wide. This site can be characterized by having fast tidal currents, just over one knot, deep water, and fine sand sediment. The average depth is 1.65 meters with a range of 0.65 to 2.45 meters. The pH averages 5.8 with a range of 3.9 to 7.4. The salinity averages 2.2 with a range of from 0 to 15.1 ppt. The NERR data is collected to fulfill two major goals: to support state-specific non-point source pollution control programs by establishing local networks of continuous water quality monitoring stations in representative protected estuarine ecosystems; and to develop a nationwide database on baseline environmental conditions in the NERR system of estuaries. The NERR System-wide Monitoring Program seeks &to identify and track short-term variability and long-term changes in the integrity and biodiversity of representative estuarine ecosystems and coastal watersheds for the purposes of contributing to effective national, regional, and site specific coastal zone management&. This comprehensive program consists of three phased components: (1) abiotic factors (i.e. water quality & meteorological monitoring), (2) biodiversity monitoring, and (3) land use planning analysis. With the initial focus on phase (1), the NERR System-wide Monitoring Program will provide data necessary for site and inter-site baseline studies, trend analyses and impact assessment. Information for this metadata was taken from the Water Quality Data Dissemination Page and individual site pages.. KEYWORD: contaminants, dissolved oxygen, continent, turbidity, nerr, water temperature, water quality monitoring, usa, noaa, jacques cousteau, mullica river national estuarine research reserve, united states of america, conductivity, north america, mullica river, new jersey, new jersey, lower bank, water quality, water chemistry, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, buoy 126, terrestrial hydrosphere, oxygen, ground-based observations, salinity, ocean chemistry, national estuarine research reserve, chestnut neck, great bay, new jersey, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, biosphere, ph, oceans, salinity, density, buoy 139, dissolved gases, estuarine habitat, nj, 
TITLE: Satellite Imagery of Surface Water Temperature in Canada. ABSTRACT: The Maurice Lamontagne Institute remote sensing laboratory operates two satellite image receiving stations (Mont-Joli and Resolute Bay) allowing the acquisition of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather satellites data. Data are available as JPEG images for a series of nine regions covering Canada's coastal zones including Hudson Bay, the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Atlantic and Scotian shelf regions, the Arctic, Beaufort, Baffin, Northwater polynya and the Pacific. Temporal coverage varies between regions as receiving stations became operational at different dates. Images acquired at every satellite overpass and weekly and bi-monthly means are available. The means are generated using available data from all operational satellites and include day and night data. After their acquisition, the images are filtered to eliminate the presence of clouds and ice and a land mask is applied. Images are navigated using a first approximation based on orbital parameters and refined using an automatic correspondence between ground control points observable from the coastlines within the images and a digital chart. Generally, the navigation precision is of the order of one pixel (1,1 km). Images for which the navigation quality is not acceptable are not taken into consideration into the calculation of the means. Sea surface temperatures are calculated using a split-window type algorithm using thermal channels from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR). Different algorithms are used for day and night captured images. The Terascan software (Seaspace Corporation) is use to navigate the images and calculate sea surface temperatures. Products generated by the processing system are validated against in-situ data acquired by the thermograph network.These data are processed to calculate sea surface temperatures and are used within oceanographic research projects and for ecosystem monitoring. These images allow the monitoring of the evolution of diverse physical processes and their coupling to biological processes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, ocean temperature, northern hemisphere, north america, spectral, engineering, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, polar, infrared wavelengths, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, ocean, canada, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Ocean Current Data from the Canadian East Coast and Eastern Arctic, 1960 to the present. ABSTRACT: The Ocean Data Inventory database is an inventory of all of the oceanographic time series data held by the Ocean Science Division at the Bedford Institute of Oceanography. The data archive includes about 5000 current meter time series, 3500 coastal temperature time series from thermographs, as well as a small number of tide gauges. Many of the current meters also have temperature and salinity sensors. The area for which we have data is roughly defined as the North Atlantic and Arctic from 30? - 82? N, although there are some minor amounts of data from other parts of the world The data is used in support of Physical Oceanographic programs on ocean climate, off-shore energy and living resources. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, continent, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, atlantic canada, none, marine, sea surface, currents, canadian coast, northern hemisphere, physical oceanography, north america, atlantic provinces, western atlantic ocean, polar, vertical location, gulf of maine, earth science, ceos, ocean climate, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, ships, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, current speed, direction, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Aircraft Sounding Of Clouds from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The ASC data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include upper-air temperature, humidity, pressure, and cloud data such as amount, zero isotherm height, turbulence, inversion, icing, and isotherms for Africa, Asia, Europe, and Australia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, clouds, troposphere, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, atmospheric pressure measurements, aircraft soundings, russia, humidity, ground stations, europe, cloud turbulence, cloud genera, cloud icing, cloud inversion, polar, vertical location, cloud types, aircraft, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, asc, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, water vapor, zero isotherm height, cloud isotherms, cloud amounts, geographic region, eurasia, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Index. ABSTRACT: The Sea Ice Index provides a quick look at sea ice changes in spatial and historical context, and gives a consistent, up-to-date source of sea ice extent and sea ice concentration values and images. The NSIDC Near-Real-Time DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Sea Ice Concentrations and the Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SSMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data data sets are used to generate the monthly records of sea ice extent and sea ice concentration for the Arctic and Antarctica from satellite passive microwave data. Data files tabulate monthly mean extent and area, in millions of square kilometers, by year for a given month. Plots of monthly sea ice extent anomalies with trend lines and significance intervals are available. Monthly images show sea ice extent (with an outline of the median extent for that month for comparison), sea ice concentration, trends in sea ice concentration, and anomalies in sea ice concentration. Anomalies and median extent are calculated using a reference period of 1979 through 2000. Daily images of sea ice extent and concentration, along with a time series plot of extent for the most recent four months, can be viewed and downloaded on the data product site but are not archived. Some products are available as GIS compatible shapefiles and KML files. The Browse Image Spreadsheet Tool (BIST) can be used for animated images and for displaying archived images of extent and trends side by side, to make it easy to compare images from different years and months. Data are stored in ASCII text, Portable Network Graphics (PNG), Keyhole Markup Language (KML), and Geospatial Vector Data format and are available from November 1978 to present via FTP or the Sea Ice Index Web site.. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, sea ice trends, smmr, usa, noaa, sea ice conditions, noaa, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, sea ice, ice growth, melt, satellites, polar, reflectance, sea ice anomalies, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, ssm, i, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: AARI Russian North Polar Drifting Station Data, from NSIDC. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of 31 Russian north polar drifting stations which took observations for the periods 1937-1938 and 1950-1991. We received the latest version of this data from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) via the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, surface winds, polar, atmospheric temperature, sea level pressure, arctic, earth science, weather stations, air temperature, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, drifting observation stations, usa, ncar, humidity, ground stations, geographic region, meteorological stations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Soil Survey Digitized Maps; USDA SCS. ABSTRACT: Soil Survey Digitized Maps come from digital data sets. This data set includes digitized soil survey maps of Alaska, rectified to orthophoto base using the DLG-3 format. The data set is currently under development and is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: continent, landcover, arctic, usda, scs, aedd, vegetation, soil, usa, usda, soil consistence, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, soils, soil classification, polar, scs, erosion, sedimentation, aircraft, earth science, land surface, maps, charts, sedimentation, alaska directory, environment, conservation, soil mechanics, geographic region, 
TITLE: Climate Data from Barrow and Atqasuk Alaska 1998-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set presents various climate data from sites in Barrow and Atquasuk, on the Northern Slope of Alaska. Parameters include thaw depth, air temperature, precipitation, wind speed, light intensity, plant canopy temperature, soil temperature, soil moisture, soil salinity, and relative humidity. Data were collected between June 1995 and August 2001 by various sensors connected to data loggers. Air and soil temperatures are given in degrees Celsius and wind speed is measured in meters per second. All other paramater measurements are detailed in the documentation. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, precipitation rate, arctic, wind velocity, usa, noaa, arctic system science, soil depth, precipitation, precipitation total, north america, alaska, thermometers, soil temperature, soil depth probe, ground stations, ground-based observations, permafrost extent, std, surface air temperature, wind speed, arctic soils, office of polar programs, national science foundation, frozen soil, itex, permafrost, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, frozen ground, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, precipitation accumulation, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, mean monthly precipitation, pyranometers, agriculture, arcss, laii, itex, usa, nsf, united states of america, soil temperature probe, probes, soils, arcss908, polar, salinity, international tundra experiment, soil moisture, near-surface wind speeds, earth science, ceos, land surface, tundra soils, soil moisture probe, salinity, temperature, depth, soil salinity, soil sodicity, 
TITLE: Hierarchic GIS: Process, Pattern and Scale for Analysis of Arctic Ecosystems (ITEX). ABSTRACT: This study is developing a GIS at multiple scales for the Kuparuk River Basin and other sites in Alaska. The project includes geobotanical sampling of 1 x 1 km grids at 100 m intervals for vegetation, soils, and active layer depth. Sites are: U1 Barrow Grid (71 deg 20 min N, 156 deg 30 min W) U3 Atkasook Grid (70 deg. 27 min N, 157 deg 25 min W) U5 West Dock Grid (70 deg 22 min N, 148 deg 34 min W) U7 Betty Pingo Grid (70 deg 17 min N, 148 deg 52 min W) U10 Happy Valley Grid (69 deg 9 min N, 148 deg 51 min W) U11 Imnavait Creek Grid (68 deg 37 min N, 149 deg 18 min W) U12 Toolik Lake Grid (68 deg 37 min N, 149 deg 36 min W) R4 GIS also includes Parisento Grid (approx 70 deg N, 76 deg E). These sites are part of the IPA Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, ggd, arctic, vegetation, usa, noaa, gis, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, soils, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, biomass, mapping, international tundra experiment, meteorology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, vegetation cover, land surface, biosphere, itex, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m ISIN Grid V001. ABSTRACT: Snow cover products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded daily and eight-day composites, at 500 m resolution. A snow mapping algorithm, based on the Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests, is used to process MODIS data. The daily level 3 product (MOD10A11) contains fields for snow cover and quality assurance (QA). Data also contain local and global attributes. This 500 m product consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of data gridded in an integerized sinusoidal map projection. Snow cover data and supporting attributes are in HDF-EOS format, and are available by ftp.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, snomap, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, swath, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Oxygen and Deuterium Isotope Measurements from Siberia, 2002-2004. ABSTRACT: Investigators performed a stable isotope analysis of rain, snow, the Kolyma River, and a local stream near Cherskii, Siberia from 30 June 2002 through 27 April 2004. As part of the Russian-American Initiative on Shelf-land Environments (RAISE) program, this research was designed to quantify the impacts of disturbance on the seasonal cycle of atmospheric carbon dioxide and the discharge of carbon and nitrogen into the Arctic Ocean in forest and shrubby tundra regions. Monitoring the stable isotopic composition of water runoff from Arctic rivers provides a means to investigate integrated basin-scale changes. Investigators measured river water and precipitation del18O and delD to partition the river flow into snow and rain components in the Kolyma River basin (Welp et al. 2005). Data are tab-delimited ASCII text files and are available via FTP. A supplementary graph of the data is also provided in JPEG format.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, drifting ice, river discharge rates, arctic, usa, noaa, precipitation, usa, nsf, russia, mass spectrometers, russian-american initiative on shelf-land environments in the arctic, ice drift, raise, snow, ice chemistry, water quality, water chemistry, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, oxygen isotope concentrations, ground-based observations, polar, stable isotopes, opp-0451413, fixed observation stations, earth science, cryosphere, river basin, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, deuterium isotope concentrations, surface water, arcss157, eastern europe, rivers, streams, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, nsf, opp, siberia, 
TITLE: BOREAS TGB-07 DRY DEPOSITION HERBICIDE AND ORGANOCHLORINE FLUX DATA. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BOREAS TGB-07 team measured the concentration and flux of several agricultural pesticides in air, rainwater, and dry deposition samples in order to determine the associated yearly deposition rates. This data set contains information on the dry deposition flux of seven herbicides [2,4-dichlorophenoxyacidic_acid (2,4-D), bromoxynil, dicamb, 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA), triallate, trifluralin, and diclop-methyl] known to appear in the atmosphere of the Canadian prairies. Also, the concentration of three herbicides (atrazine, alaclor and metolachlor), two groups of insecticides (lindane and breakdown products and dichlro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT) and breakdown products), and several polychlorinated biphenyls commonly used in the central United States were measured. All of these chemicals are reported, in the literature, to be transported in the atmosphere. Many have been reported to occur in boreal and arctic food chains. The samplin g was carried out from June 16 to August 13, 1993 and May 4 to July 20, 1994 at the BOREAS site in the Prince Albert National Park (Waskesiu).. KEYWORD: continent, gas chromatograph, mass spectrometry, 2,4-d, trifluralin, echo, metolachlor, eosdis, agriculture, earth science information partners program, the boreal ecosystem-atmosphere study, pesticides, north america, triallate, rain, dicamb, earth science, pesticides, pcbs, usa, nasa, gc-ms, alaclor, bromoxynil, mcpa, atmospheric transport, earth observing system data information system, canada, atrazine, ambient air, laboratory, agricultural chemicals, esip, diclop-methyl, boreas, 
TITLE: Profiling hydrocarbons and nutrient distribution and mobility around Pedro Vicente Maldonado Station, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: Chemical transport occurs lateral and vertically. This project aims to study mobility and transportation of chemicals in Antarctica. Lateral transport of essential elements in an ecosystem is the definition of nutrient cycling. Nutrients are dynamic in the ecosystem; they travel from one trophic level to another. The faster the turnover time, the more productive the ecosystem is. In the tropics, photosynthesis converts carbon dioxide by using light energy from the sun to produce organic matter at the primary producer level while microbes are the main decomposers of derived organic chemicals back into inorganic elements and thus completing the nutrient cycle. The extreme conditions in Antarctica are not favorable to plants photosynthesis. Most of the primary producers are bound to the sea. The mechanisms to convey nutrients from the sea to the inland areas in Antarctica is not well defined. Hypothetically, birds play an important role as the conveyor. Digestive systems of the birds convert the organic matters back into inorganic nutrients for the terrestrial organisms during the short summer (Figure 1). Data obtained from this study shall enable the elaboration of the process in greater detail. As for the vertical transport, there is a well-known hypothesis; the grass hopping effect for long range transport of chemicals. Hypothetically, chemicals may transport through a long distance through the grass hopping effect. In fact, the existence of pesticides in polar bears in the Arctic was attempted to be explained by using the grass hopping types of long range transport. However, there are missing gaps in the southern hemisphere. Hence, this project is undertaken to study the long range transport by using petroleum hydrocarbons as a model.. KEYWORD: solid earth, atmosphere, continent, ecological dynamics, amd, my, sediment composition, polar, marp, geochemistry, erosion, sedimentation, malaysian antarctic research program, earth science, ceos, land surface, biosphere, antarctica, biogeochemistry, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, atmospheric chemistry, sediment transport, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, sediment chemistry, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: MLS Aura L2 Chlorine Monoxide (ClO) Mixing Ratio V002 ML2CLO at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: ML2CLO is the EOS Aura Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) standard product for chlorine monoxide derived from radiances measured primarily by the 640 GHz radiometer. The current ML2CLO product is version 2.2. Spatial coverage is near-global (-82 to +82 latitude), with each profile spaced 1.5 or ~165 km along the orbit track (roughly 15 orbits per day). The recommended useful vertical range is between 100 and 1.0 hPa, and the vertical resolution varies between 3 and 4.5 km. Users of the ML2CLO data product should read section 3.4 of the EOS MLS Level 2 Version 2.2 Quality Document for more information (http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov data v2-2_data_quality_document.pdf). Users are encouraged to register with the MLS science team at http:  mls.jpl.nasa.gov cgi-bin registration.pl to obtain updates and information about this data product. The ML2CLO data are stored in the version 5 EOS Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS5), which is based on the version 5 Hierarchical Data Format, or HDF5. Each file contains two swath objects (one with profile data, the other with column data), each with a set of data and geolocation fields, swath attributes, and metadata. The data fields include the geophysical parameter values and precision (standard deviation), convergence values, data quality, and a status flag. The geolocation fields include a time stamp in TAI-93 format (seconds since January 1, 1993), geodetic latitude and longitude, and pressure level values, as well as local solar time, solar zenith angle, line of sight angle, and orbit geodetic angle. There is one file per day, and the average file size is about 1.0 Mbytes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, polar, clo, arctic, earth science, ceos, halocarbons and halogens, echo, global, microwave limb sounder, usa, nasa, eosdis, aura, atmospheric chemistry, chlorine monoxide, earth science information partners program, earth observing system data information system, mls, esip, geographic region, earth observing system (eos), aura, stratosphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid (MOD10A2) data set contains data fields for maximum snow cover extent over an eight-day compositing period and a chronology of snow occurrence observations in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. MOD10A2 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Weekly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Data set of Imaging Riometer at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica,Year 2000. ABSTRACT: The Imaging Riometer is to measure cosmic noise absorption caused by ionosphere with 8 by 8 antennas. It can monitor cosmic noise absorption at ionosphere D-region with spatial dimension of 300300 km. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institutes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, imaging riometers, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, ocean, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, solar activity, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 1A and Geolocation Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. Level-1A products contain the raw radiance counts from all bands as well as unpacked instrument telemetry. Level-1A data are used as input for geolocation and calibration processing. These products are used to derive all higher-level MODIS Aqua Ocean products as well as true color imagery. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html There are differences between the subsetted rescaled Level 1A produced and distributed by OBPG and the Standard Level 1A raw radiances (MYD01) produced by the MODIS Project. The MODIS Level 1A files that are produced, utilized, and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) are subsetted to remove bands and data that are not utilized for Ocean (SST and Ocean Color) product generation. In addition, selected Ocean visible bands, which saturate over land and clouds, are &extended& using information from other bands, to support the generation of true color images. Information about the OBPG MODIS subsetted Level-1A products can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov PRODUCTS Level_1A.html Geolocation files (GEO) are generated using standard SDST code (MOD_PR03). For the near-real-time (NRT) processing, the predicted attitude and ephemeris files are used to produce Quick-Look GEO files. Several days later, in the Refined processing stream, the definitive attitude and ephemeris files are used to create the final GEO version. GEO files are not maintained in the long-term archive, as they can be regenerated as needed using the much smaller attitude and ephemeris files. Therefore, only a short-term rolling archive is made available for distribution. Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 1 data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl?sen=am Aqua MODIS Level 1A and Geolocation daytime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Day  Aqua MODIS Level 1A and Geolocation nighttime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Night . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, visible imagery, arctic, eos, infrared imagery, visible radiance, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, spectral, engineering, global ocean, sensor counts, reflected infrared, infrared radiance, thermal infrared, modis, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, visible wavelengths, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 15th Chinese Antarctic Research in 1998-1999. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 15th Chinese Antarctic Research in 1998-1999.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) ARC001: Population Size Growth of Arctic Grayling at Kuparuk River and Oksrukuyik Creek, Alaska. ABSTRACT: LTER - Long-Term Ecological Research Program Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska (ARC) LTER ARC001 [Summary adapted from the LTER Core Data Set Catalog]: Arctic Grayling from the Kuparuk River and Oksrukuyik Creek were captured, measured, weighed, and tagged. Tagged fish were monitored for growth over the summer season as well as from year to year. Population estimates were made by mark and recapture. Information about LTER is also available from "http:  lternet.edu ". KEYWORD: nsf, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, arctic, lter, oksrukuyik creek, rivers, stream habitat, usa, nsf, arc, long-term ecological research, united states of america, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, arc001, earth science, arctic grayling, toolik lake, usa, nasa, biosphere, surface water, animals, vertebrates, ocean, rivers, streams, fish, ecosystems, geographic region, kuparuk river, 
TITLE: Slave Geological Province NATMAP Project in Northwest Territories, Canada. ABSTRACT: In the Northwest Territories, the Slave Geological Province NATMAP project is working to further understanding of the geological evolution and mineral potential of the Slave Province. Partners include the Geological Survey of Canada, the Northwest Territories Geology Division of the Department of Indian and Northern Affairs, the Canada-NWT Mineral Initiatives Office of the territorial government, and several universities. This project continues to provide important insights about the geology of the Slave Province, including major tectonic boundaries, distinct lithotectonic assemblages, geochronology, and the implications of these for mineral potential evaluation.To provide insight into the geology of the Slave Province including major tectonic boundaries, distinct lithotectonic assemblages, geochronology, and the implications of these for mineral potential evaluation. Open File # 2559 - Geology, Slave Craton and Environs, District of Mackenzie, Northwest Territories 1:1,000,000 - Cost is $60. Open File # 2974 - Selected Geoscience Data for the Slave Province NATMAP Project, District of Mackenzie, Northwest Territories - cost is $150. Open File # 3682 - Selected Geoscience Data from the Slave Province NATMAP Project, District of Mackenzie, Northwest Territories - Volume II - cost is $250. Please note that shipping and handling charges are not included with the price.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, till geochemistry data, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, age determinations, northern hemisphere, bedrock, dyke data, topographic base data, north america, isotopes, archean cratons, surficial, mineral occurrence data, tectonics, remotely sensed data, polar, geochronology, geochemistry, surficial geology, earth science, ceos, geophysics, igneous rocks, plate tectonics, bedrock geology, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, canada, cgdi, geochronology data, canada, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, geophysical data, 
TITLE: RADARSAT Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada, Lambert Conformal Conic, 250 Metres. ABSTRACT: Initiated to provide an unique synoptic view of Canada using data acquired from Canada's first Earth Observation Satellite, this digital national mosaic has been produced at a 250m pixel spacing, in a Lambert Conformal Conic (LCC) projection and is orthorectified to standard map bases. RADARSAT mosaic was produced using Canadian Space Agency's RADARSAT data archive and ScanSAR Narrow B descending mode data. The majority of the data, south of 60 degrees was acquired during the growing seasons of 1998 and 1999. The remaining data were collected during the winters of 1998 and 1999. The mosaic was produced by the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS) in collaboration with the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) and with contributions from RADARSAT International (RSI).The development of this project celebrates the fact that RADARSAT-1, originally launched in November of 1995, has reached and passed its five year design life in orbit. The satellite continues to deliver imagery that has been proven effective in a wide range of applications including ice reconnaissance, disaster management, oceanography and agriculture. This digital product has been developed at a number of scales (technically pixel spacing) to allow a variety of users the ability to download and use this data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: 49d00'00.0000 Standard Parallel: 77d00'00.0000 Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: 95d00'00.0000 False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 1980 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, satellite imagery, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, mosaic, spectral, engineering, radarsat-1, yukon territory, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, radar, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Large Area Estimates of Carbon Fluxes of Arctic Landscapes. ABSTRACT: Net CO2, evapotranspiration, and energy exchange were measured during 1998-2001 in wet-moist coastal sedge tundra (Barrow: 71 degrees 21 minutes north, 156 degrees 37 minutes west) and moist-wet coastal sedge tundra moist-tussock tundra ecosystems (Atqasuk: 70 degrees 28 minutes north, 157 degrees 25 minutes west), and during the 1994-95 growing seasons (June-August) in moist-acidic (Happy Valley: 69 degrees 9 minutes north, 148 degrees 51 minutes west), moist non-acidic (24-Mile: 69 degrees 56 minutes north, 148 degrees 49 minutes west) and wet-sedge tundra ecosystems (U-Pad: 70 degrees 17 minutes north, 148 degrees 53 minutes west) located on the north slope of Alaska.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, alpine, tundra, thermocouples, arctic, psychrometers, gulf of alaska, evapotranspiration, usa, noaa, arctic system science, carbon flux, usa, nsf, united states of america, nondispersive infrared gas analyzer, north america, carbon, ndir gas analyzer, alaska, infrared thermometers, licor quantum sensor, thermometers, north pacific ocean, polar, carbon dioxide, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, total carbon, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, carbon cycle, anemometers, biosphere, arcss, laii, flux, atmospheric water vapor, carbon dioxide fluxes, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, ocean, net radiometers, soil heat flux transducer, geographic region, carbon flux monitoring, arcss, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Canada Airport Manoeuvring Surface. ABSTRACT: The Canada Airport Manoeuvring Surface (CAMS) is a digital product which provides pictorial displays of Canadian airport manoeuvring areas found in the Canada Air Pilot or the military GPH 200, and may be reproduced for the sole purpose of assisting pilots during aircraft ground movement operations. Up-to-date information on flight planning procedures and airport services, including fuel, lighting, and local prohibitions or procedures is found in the Canada Flight Supplement.The airport diagrams are readily available to general aviation pilots through NAV CANADA's website to enhance aviation safety and to help to mitigate some of the risks associated with runway incursions. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome Location Indicators, Radio Navigation Aid Indicators, Obstacles Direct Spatial Reference: point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, terrain elevation, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, communications, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, human dimensions, yukon territory, reference systems, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, geodetics, gravity, quebec, alberta, transportation, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, prince edward island, infrastructure, buildings, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Weekly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Administrative Boundaries, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Administrative Boundaries files comprise digital data sets that cover the entire Canadian landmass. The organizational unit for each data set is the National Topographic System (NTS), based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83). The ground data is depicted through lines and areas. Each data set (file) respects the UTM projection, planimetric coordinates and each feature has a single codification. Each file (data set) consists of one NTS unit at either the 1:50 000 or 1:250 000 scale. The digital data are represented by lines and areas. The initial version of the Administrative Boundaries file contains six types of entities: international boundaries, provinces, municipalities, national parks, national wildlife areas and migratory bird sanctuaries. A total of 13,351 files at the 1:50 000 scale and 980 files at the 1:250 000 scale are created for the entire Canadian landmass. The three data sources are from the International Boundary Commission, the Legal Surveys Division of Natural Resources Canada, and Statistics Canada.To provide other sources of digital topographic data information. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, national wildlife area boundaries, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, vertical location, polar, municipal boundaries, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, provincial boundaries, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, migratory bird sanctuary boundaries, national park boundaries, canada, cgdi, international boundaries, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Paleoproductivity Data. ABSTRACT: Arctic Ocean Paleoproductivity Data Data Tables from Wollenburg, Kuhnt, and Mackensen, 2000. Table 2. Sediment core PS2138-1. Percentages of foraminifers >63m. *Only species with a relative abundance >1% in at least one sample are included. X denotes abundances <1% Table 3. Sediment core PS2138-1. Age (calendar kyr), C14 (kyr), Depth (cmbsf), Shannon-Wiener-Index, Benthic Foraminifera Accumulation Rate (BFAR, spec.no 1g(dry sediment) kyr), Isotope values d13C (0 PDB) of Melonis zaandami, d18O (0 PDB) values of M. zaandami, d13C (0 PDB) values of Cassidulina teretis, d18O (0 PDB) values of C. teretis, Q-mode principal components factor loadings (PC1-4 (>63m)), correspondence analysis factor 1 values (CF1 (>63m)), Paleoproductivity (g C m2 yr) calculated by using the transfer function of Wollenburg and Kuhnt (submitted manuscript, 2000) Table 4. Sediment core PS2212-3. Percentages of foraminifers >63m. *Only species with a relative abundance >1% in at least one sample are included. X denotes abundances <1% Table 5. Sediment core PS2212-3. Age (calendar kyr), C14 (kyr), Depth (cmbsf), Shannon-Wiener-Index, Benthic Foraminifera Accumulation Rate (BFAR, spec.no 1g(dry sediment) kyr), Isotope values d13C (0 PDB) of Fontbotia wuellerstorfi, d18O (0 PDB) values of F. wuellerstorfi, d13C (0 PDB) values of Oridorsalis tener, d18O (0 PDB) values of O. tener, Q-mode principal components factor loadings (PC1-5 (>63m) PC1-4 (>125m)), correspondence analysis factor 1 values (CF1 (>63m)), Paleoproductivity (g C m2 yr) calculated by using the transfer function of Wollenburg and Kuhnt (submitted manuscript, 2000). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, past global changes, igbp, paleo start date 145 ka, cenozoic, arctic, earth science, ceos, paleoproductivity, phanerozoic, isotope, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sediment, pages, ocean, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, paleo stop date 0 ka, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: FireWire, Canada. ABSTRACT: FireWire is the online fire data service of the Canadian Interagency Forest Fire Centre. Viewers can access a stream of constantly-updated situation reports every day during the forest fire season. This data is free and can be viewed online in either English or French. For a charge, the CIFFC will also fax or email the FireWire situation report.To help keep fire-fighters, fire-management groups, and aviation companies on track and in command of wildland fires. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, fire weather index, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, parks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, fire ecology, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, wildland fire resource mobilization, biosphere, quebec, alberta, wildland fires, canada, cgdi, forest fires, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, fire occurrence, fire weather prediction, 
TITLE: Radiosonde Casts from the Koldewey Ground Station and Research Ship FS Polarstern (Arctic). ABSTRACT: These data are collected by the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research (AWI), Bremerhaven for the Arctic at the Koldewey Ground Station (79N,12E) since 1991 and at the research ship FS Polarstern since 1982. Upper air soundings are carried out routinely once a day normally between 10 and 12 UTC. They include profile measurements of pressure, temperature, relative humidity and wind vector. About once a week an additional ozone profile is retrieved as well. Usually the profiles start at the ground and end between 15 and 37 km. For the routine soundings VAISALA RS80 radiosondes, carried by helium-filled balloons (TOTEX 350, 600, 1200) are used. The data is coded (FM35-Temp) and transferred directly to the Global Telecommunication System (GTS) where they contribute to weather forecasting. To obtain the ozone profiles an additional ozone sensor (VAISALA, ECC5A) has been attached to the radiosonde. The wind vector is determined with the aid of the OMEGA navigation system. Data reception and evaluation are carried out by a DigiCora System (VAISALA). At AWI the upper air soundings are archived together with the routine synoptic weather observation and surface radiation and mast measurements in a relational database (SYBASE). Actual soundings normally reach the database once a month. Data are accessible via Web network by means of the AWI-Home-Page, 'http:  www.awi-bremerhaven.de', and can be obtained from AWI after prior consultation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, idn_node esrin, dlr, air soundings, atmospheric temperature, balloons, germany, dlr, arctic, upper air soundings, air temperature, arctica, troposphere, ozone, atmospheric pressure measurements, www, humidity, radiosondes, ground stations, stratosphere, surface winds, polar, vertical location, trace gases, trace species, relative humidity, koldewey ground station, earth science, oxygen compounds, profiles, ceos, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ships, ocean, water vapor, wind vector, upper air, atlantic ocean, geographic region, polarstern, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with high speed plankton collectorby 15th CHINARE in 1998-1999. ABSTRACT: 26 hi-speed sapmles were collected from the Southern Ocean. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Lake Sediments of Northern North America - Pollen Radiocarbon Dates. ABSTRACT: The data are in two Excel files, one for Canada and one for the United States of America located north of 40?N. They provide radiocarbon dates of organic sediments on small lakes collected primarily for the purpose of pollen analysis. A detailed description of the pollen stratigraphy and vegetation history has been extracted from the published literature and entered into these files. These files are then used to map the distribution of paleo-vegetation.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Ice Core Volcanic Index2 Data. ABSTRACT: [Text Source: Gao, Chaochao, Alan Robock, and Caspar Ammann, 2008: Volcanic forcing of climate over the past 1500 years: An improved ice-core-based index for climate models. J. Geophys. Res., 113, D23111, doi:10.1029 2008JD010239.] Understanding natural causes of climate change is vital to evaluate the relative impacts of human pollution and land surface modification on climate. We have investigated one of the most important natural causes of climate change, volcanic eruptions, by using 54 ice core records from both the Arctic and Antarctica. Our recently collected suite of ice core data, more than double the number of cores ever used before, reduces errors inherent in reconstructions based on a single or small number of cores, which enables us to obtain much higher accuracy in both detection of events and quantification of the radiative effects. We extracted volcanic deposition signals from each ice core record by applying a high-pass LOESS filter to the time series and examining peaks that exceed twice the 31-year running median absolute deviation. We then studied the spatial pattern of volcanic sulfate deposition on Greenland and Antarctica, and combined this knowledge with a new understanding of stratospheric transport of volcanic aerosols to produce a forcing data set as a function of month, latitude, and altitude for the past 1500 years. We estimated the uncertainties associated with the choice of volcanic signal extraction criteria, ice-core sulfate deposition to stratospheric loading calibration factor, and the season for the eruptions without a recorded month. We forced an energy balance climate model with this new volcanic forcing data set, together with solar and anthropogenic forcing, to simulate the large scale temperature response. The results agree well with instrumental observations for the past 150 years and with proxy records for the entire period. Through better characterization of the natural causes of climate change, this new data set will lead to improved prediction of anthropogenic impacts on climate. The new data set of stratospheric sulfate injections from volcanic eruptions for the past 1500 years, as a function of latitude, altitude, and month, is available for download in a format suitable for forcing general circulation models of the climate system.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, vertical location, models, sulfate, volcanic deposits, fixed observation stations, earth science, coring devices, global, usa, nasa, paleoclimate, atmospheric chemistry, ice core records, geographic region, sulfur compounds, stratosphere, 
TITLE: Tides, Currents, and Water Levels Data. ABSTRACT: Summary: The Tides, Currents, and Water Levels Web Site provides predicted times and heights of high and low waters, and the hourly water levels for over seven hundred stations in Canada. The printed version is published yearly and is available through the authorized chart dealers. Presently there are no actual current predictions available on the Web site. It is also possible to obtain water level observations for some stations on the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River. For further information, please contact the Canadian Hydrographic Service by e-mail at chsinfo@dfo-mpo.gc.ca . Purpose: To provide clients with up-to-date, timely, and accurate Hydrographic publications necessary for safe and efficient navigation for navigable waters of Canada in the most cost effective and efficient manner and to represent Canadian hydrographic interests nationally and internationally. Sponsor: This actual site was realized by the Canadian Hydrographic Service and the Direction of Ocean Sciences, Regional Direction of Sciences, Maurice Lamontagne Institute (Fisheries and Oceans Canada), with the support of the St. Lawrence Observatory team.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, continent, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea surface topography, north america, tidal currents, north pacific ocean, gulf of maine, polar, ocean winds, tidal height, pacific ocean, earth science, beaufort sea, tides, bathymetry, seafloor topography, hudson bay, sea surface height, water depth, ocean, canada, gommp, oceans, davis straight, gulf of maine monitoring programs, atlantic ocean, geographic region, ocean circulation, great lakes, canada, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes wind speed and wind direction measurements as recorded by a R.M. Young model 05103 wind monitor. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, maximum wind speed, lter, arctic, minimum wind speed, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Oden06 Marine Mammal and Seabird Surveys. ABSTRACT: The data set consists of sightings of marine mammals and seabirds during a cruise aboard the Icebreaker Oden in December 2006 from Punta Arenas Chile to McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. Included are date and time of sighting, latitude and longitude of sighting, species observed, number of individuals of each species.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, toothed whales, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, usa, nsf, seals, sea lions, walruses, international polar year, cetaceans, teachers and researchers exploring and collaborating in the arctic and antarctic, waders, gulls, auks and allies, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, baleen whales, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, antarctica, polartrec, animals, vertebrates, carnivores, ipy, mammals, ocean, penguins, amd, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes radiation (solar flux, PAR) measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, lter, solar flux, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, licor quantum sensor, taylor valley, lake fryxell, par, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, biosphere, antarctica, lter mcm, longwave radiation, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: Rocket Wind Profiles from the MAP WINE Experiment at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). ABSTRACT: This data set contains profiles of meridional and zonal components of the winds recorded at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean) carried out under the MAP WINE Project. Magnitude and direction of wind velocity are derived from the drift of the parachuting payloads for the height interval 50 to 90 km (mesosphere and upper stratosphere ). Height resolution varies between near 1 km for the upper part of profile to 100 m for the bottom part. Total number of measurements is near 130 per profile for 93 profiles (launches). The MAP WINE (Middle Atmosphere Program Winter in Northern Europe) was one of the MAP projects scheduled for Fall-Winter 1983-1984. The aim was to coordinate observational studies of the high-latitude European middle atmosphere in winter, leading to an improved understanding of the winter variability structure, motions, and composition.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, arctic, wind profiles, ionosphere, middle atmosphere program, winter in northern europe, russia, map, wine, mesosphere, ground stations, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, stratosphere, meteorological stations, vertical location, polar, earth science, rocketsondes, usa, nasa, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, ocean, climatology, upper air, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night (MOD29P1N) data set contains fields for Ice Surface Temperature (IST) and IST Spatial Quality Assessment (QA) in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. The field Sea Ice by Ice Surface Temperature that is in Version 4 (V004) was removed from Version 5 (V005). MOD29P1N V005, the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, consists of 954 x 954 km files of 1 km resolution data gridded in the Lambert Azimuth Equal Area map projection. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Eurasian River Historical Nutrient and Sediment Flux Data. ABSTRACT: The Russian Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Roshydromet) measured sediment fluxes and nutrient concentrations of sixteen Russian rivers between 1938 and 2000. This data set includes monthly sediment fluxes (in kilograms per second) and nitrate, ammonium, and phosphate concentrations (in milligrams per liter). As explained in the data set documentation, ammonium measurements from 2000 indicate that historical data significantly overestimate ammonium concentrations. Data are available via ftp.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, opp-9818199, arcss092, arctic, usa, noaa, colorimeters, nutrients, usa, nsf, russia, surface water chemistry, opp9818199, russian-american initiative on shelf-land environments in the arctic, raise, water quality, water chemistry, suspended solids, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, ground-based observations, polar, nitrogen compounds, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, surface water, eastern europe, water bottles, national science foundation, phosphorous compounds, rivers, streams, geographic region, eurasia, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes radiation measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, lter, arctic, vegetation, outgoing shortwave radiation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, net radiation, licor quantum sensor, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, biosphere, antarctica, longwave radiation, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Weekly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Arctic Station Data at LDEO Climate Data Library. ABSTRACT: Data collected from 35 Arctic stations including tritium, depth, ice fraction Atlantic fraction, river runoff, delta oxygen 18, salinity, silicate, and potential temperature. See: "http:  ingrid.ldeo.columbia.edu SOURCES .ARCTIC .STATION ". KEYWORD: tritium age, sea ice concentration, arctic, ocean temperature, radioisotopes, open-source project for a network data access protocol, trace elements, earth science information partners program, sea ice, water quality, water chemistry, ocean tracers, tritium, helium age, terrestrial hydrosphere, oxygen, delta oxygen 18, polar, tritium, salinity, ocean chemistry, radionuclides, river runoff, earth science, runoff, cryosphere, usa, nasa, potential temperature, surface water, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, silicate, ice fraction, dods, oceans, salinity, density, esip, geographic region, opendap, tritium vintage age, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: SCAR (04-05) Epoch GPS Campaign. ABSTRACT: GPS international joint testing by ICSU's Scientific Committee of Antarctic Geodesy and Geographic Information Working Group (SCAR-GSSG) was organized and implemented an international large-scale cooperation projects, whose aim is the sharing of data through observation, research: 1) the Antarctic plate and adjacent plates, as well as micro-plate relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; 2) the Antarctic plate various places within the relative motion between the shell; 3) a unified system of vertical Antarctic base to determine the tide of the Antarctic station elevation above sea level; 4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement of the "global interaction with the Antarctic" and other scientific issues. China's participation in international GPS campaign observation, not only can the international sharing of the study results, but also the international joint testing data sharing power, for raising the level of China's Antarctic research Geodynamics, expanding the research in the field of international influence and of great significance . The International Alliance GPS measurement time for the 2005 1 on 20 day 00:00 (UTC) -2005 years February 10 24:00 (UTC), a cumulative time of 22 days, 24 hours a day for observation. The joint test used by the Wuhan University of Surveying and Mapping Institute of Trimble GPS receiver, it has L1, L2 dual-frequency phase output, for the international advanced, high-precision, the international joint testing and the global number of IGS (International GPS Service) station commonly used.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, gps receivers, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, plate tectonics, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, tectonics, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: UNEP-WCMC Species Database. ABSTRACT: The United Nations Species Database includes data on 73,404 animals and 88,760 plants of conservation interest as well as 92,310 sub-species, stocks or synonyms.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, arctic, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, global, coral disease mapping service, aewa listed species, arctic birds, trees of global conservation concern, conservation, eu wildlife trade regulation listed species, plants of global conservation concern, plants, cites listed species, un, human dimensions, animals, geographic region, marine aquarium species in trade, 
TITLE: Raptorscope, web-based mapping application for real-time oceanographic data.. ABSTRACT: RAPTORscope is a web-based mapping application that allows a user to view real-time oceanographic data. Future research and instrument deployments will be based on real-time data so that assets can be strategically placed to answer specific questions. These high resolution assets, or RAPTOR arrays (RAPidly Triggered Observation Response) are an idea that developed at the NSF sponsored ORION Workshop. Each RAPTOR array will focus in on a particular part of the ocean. These areas will be identified through RAPTORscope. Currently the data products that are available include : - Satellite Sea Surface Temperature - Satellite Ocean Color - Codar Surface Currents (raw, tidal, detided, and 3-day averaged) - Glider Data (Current location, track, and surface temperature) RAPTORscope has two versions (applet, and servlet). Each allows a user to overlay different layers of information in a slightly different way.. KEYWORD: ocean color, ocean, earth science, oceans, ocean temperature, ocean optics, atlantic ocean, usa, nasa, tides, tidal currents, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Chemical and Isotopic Tracers from the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: These data are water column and sediment data tabulated in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. They were largely collected in the Bering and Chukchi Seas, with some coverage for the Beaufort and East Siberian Seas, and with limited coverage for other portions of the Arctic Ocean. Data include that collected on Alpha Helix cruises 139, 165, 166, 174, 189, 190, 214, and 224 between 1990 and 1999. Other data were obtained from cruises of the RV OKEAN (1993), USCGC Polar Star (1993), Mendeleev (1993), USCGC Polar Sea (2000), U.S. Canada Arctic Ocean Section (1994), and Polarstern (1993). Water column data include coverage from some to most stations on these cruises, and include bottle salinity, temperature, sigma-t, oxygen-18 16 ratios, phosphate, ammonia, silicate, nitrate, dissolved oxygen, iodine-129 concentrations, and chlorophyll a. Sediment data include plutonium and neptunium concentrations, including isotope data. Biological data include radionuclide burdens in marine mammal tissues donated by subsistence hunters on the North Slope of Alaska and in the Resolute region of Canada. The readme files include reference to published use of these data, as well as additional information on interpreting data columns and spreadsheet construction. Additional biological and chemical data are being prepared for distribution at this site, and will be available in the near future.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic system science, oaii, arctic ocean section, arctic ocean, biological classification, iodine-129, ecological dynamics, arctic, ammonia, water temperature, ocean temperature, salinometers, usa, noaa, subsistence hunting, arctic system science, opp-9400069, isotopes, neptunium concentrations, thermometers, human dimensions, dissolved oxygen concentrations, oxygen, north pacific ocean, plutonium isotopes, sediment composition, ocean chemistry, radionuclides, marine mammal tissue contamination, ecotoxicology, arctic system science data coordination center, opp9217666, nitrate concentrations, neptunium isotopes, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, opp9400069, animals, vertebrates, species bioaccumulation, east siberian seas, ships, mammals, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, dissolved gases, geographic region, chukchi sea, nsf, opp, arcss, contaminants, nsf, ammonia concentrations, nitrate, opp-9217666, plutonium concentrations, usa, nsf, geotechnical properties, marine sediments, bering sea, polar, salinity, phosphate concentrations, pigments, pacific ocean, marine mammals, earth science, phosphate, chlorophyll, ceos, environmental impacts, arcss, oaii, aos, beaufort sea, adcc, ocean water salinity, silicate concentrations, arcss079, ocean water temperature, water bottles, national science foundation, silicate, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night (MYD29P1N) data set contains fields for Ice Surface Temperature (IST) and IST Spatial Quality Assessment (QA) in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. The field Sea Ice by Ice Surface Temperature that is in Version 4 (V004) was removed from Version 5 (V005. MOD29P1N V005, the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, consists of 954 x 954 km files of 1 km resolution data gridded in the Lambert Azimuth Equal Area map projection. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, eos pm-1, eos, ice temperature, echo, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Marine Ecosystem Responses to Global Climate Change in the Bering and Chukchi Seas - 2008 (OSHORO-MARY IPY Research Cruise). ABSTRACT: Oceanographic and biological data set from T S Oshoro-Maru cruises during IPY. Please see the website http:  odyssey.fish.hokudai.ac.jp IPY . Details were described in summary reports (see http:  odyssey.fish.hokudai.ac.jp IPY data2008 CruiseReportSummary-2008.pdf).. KEYWORD: bering sea, arctic ocean, polar, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, marine environment monitoring, essar, ipy, ocean, international polar year, oceans, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, chukchi sea, ecosystem studies of subarctic and arctic regions, arctic, jp, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Eocene Oligocene Boundary Paleoproductivity Data. ABSTRACT: Stable isotope and 14C dates for 5 cores in the central Arctic Ocean. Stable Isotope Data Files (*.data.txt): core depth, delta O-18 (Neogloboquadrina pachyderma sin.), delta C-13 , >63m, >500m, planktic foraminifera g dry sediment, CaCO3, ice-rafted debris (IRD, 500-1000m) g dry sediment, detrital carbonate IRD (500-1000m) g dry sediment. Variable units: cm, permille vs. Vienna PDB, permille vs. Vienna PDB, weigth-%, weigth-%, tests g dry sediment, weight-%, grains g dry sediment, grains g dry sediment Data precision: 0.1 cm, 0.08 permille, 0.04 permille, 1%, 1%, 500 tests g,1%, 0.5 grains g, 0.5 grains g. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, foraminifers, biological classification, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, caco3, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, terrigenous sediments, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, geotechnical properties, quaternary, protists, ird, paleo start date 80 ka, carbonate, amoeboids, marine sediments, polar, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, earth science, ceos, d18o, phanerozoic, ice-rafted debris, d13c, ocean, oceans, paleo stop date 0 ka, geographic region, sediments, oxygen isotopes, central arctic ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Monthly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Visual Flight Rules Navigation Charts, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Visual Navigation Chart (VNC) is used by pilots on short to extended cross country flights at medium altitudes and at low to medium airspeeds. The chart displays aeronautical information and sufficient topographic detail to facilitate air navigation through the use of a unique colour scheme, layer tinting, and shaded relief. There are 52 charts in the series.Used by pilots for visual flight reference. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Radio navigation aid indicators, Airspace Identifiers Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum System 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, terrain elevation, navigation aids, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, hypsography, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, communications, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, natural hazards, land surface, geodetics, gravity, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, prince edward island, infrastructure, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Section Porewater Chemistry Data, 1994. ABSTRACT: This data set contains data collected during the joint Canadian-U.S. Arctic Ocean Section 1994 cruise in the central Arctic ocean. The purpose of the research was to provide the first description of porewater chemistry and diagenetic processes in near-surface sediments of the central ice-covered Arctic Ocean. Thirteen subcores from boxcores were collected. Analyses for a variety of solutes from the pore waters (oxygen, dissolved iron and manganese, phosphate, and titration alkalinity) were conducted on board.. KEYWORD: arctic system science, oaii, arctic ocean section, arctic ocean, sediment corers, niskin bottles, arctic, porewater, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, trace elements, arcss029, oxygen, marine sediments, polar, ocean chemistry, earth science, phosphate, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss, oaii, aos, office of polar programs, adcc, diagenetic process, opp, sediment, opp-9400058, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, sedimentary structures, ocean, sediment chemistry, oceans, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: EBAS atmospheric composition data. ABSTRACT: EBAS - EMEP Database. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic, no, precipitation, precipitation amount, aerosol particle properties, ipy, aerosols, sulfate particles, earth science, aerosol optical depth, thickness, 
TITLE: Thermobaric Fields in the Free Atmosphere (Monthly Means) from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The TFFAMM data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include monthly means of thermobaric fields for the Northern Hemisphere since 1982.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, altitude, thermobaric fields, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, air temperature, geopotential hemisphere, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, geopotential height, eastern europe, tffamm, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, russia, monthly data, ground stations, geographic region, europe, statistics, 
TITLE: Canadian Organic Petrology Pellets - Calgary Collection. ABSTRACT: This data set includes location information for a collection of pellets - rock fragments impregnated with an epoxy, ground and polished for white reflected and fluorescence microscopy. Data on maceral composition and properties collected from the pellets are applicable to studies evaluating coalification and petroleum potential, and have been utilized in most Canadian sedimentary basins including the Beaufort-Mackenzie, Mackenzie Corridor, Franklinian Geosyncline, Sverdrup Basin, Jeanne D'Arc Basin, Scotian Shelf, Michigan Basin, Appalachian Basin, Bowser Basin, Queen Charlotte Basin, Williston Basin and Western Canada Sedimentary Basin. These samples are used for collecting data used in the evaluation of sedimentary organic facies, determination of maceral reflectance (including vitrinite reflectance) and fluorescence, thermal maturity, coalification assessment, petroleum system analysis, petroleum source potential, petroleum exploration, energy assessment, assessing properties of crude oil inclusions and origin of solid bitumen and pyrobitumen. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, franklinian geosyncline, manitoba, arctic, alginite, british columbia, williston basin, mackenzie corridor, polished pellets, fluorescence, north america, ontario, petroleum, north pacific ocean, queen charlotte basin, petroleum source rocks, petroleum systems, bitumen, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, optical microscopy, new brunswick, michigan basin, coal, rocks, minerals, vitrinite, scotian shelf, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, pyrobitumen, gcmd, fluid inclusions, natural resources, north atlantic ocean, western canada sedimentary basin (wcsb), nunavut, sporinite, northwest territories, united states of america, beaufort-mackenzie, liptinite, saskatchewan, kerogen, maceral, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, polar, sedimentary organic matter, reflectance, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, petroleum inclusions, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, organic petrology, 
TITLE: Grain Size Data from the NOAA Outer Continental Shelf Environmental Assessment Program (OCSEAP). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: These grain size data were generated as part of the Outer Continental Shelf Environmental Assessment Program (OCSEAP), funded by NOAA. Data were contributed by the University of Alaska, the University of South Carolina, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and the US Geological Survey with funding from NOAA.Data in this set may contain errors. Data include collecting institution, ship, cruise, sample id, latitude longitude, date of collection, water depth, sampling device, method of analysis, sample weight, sampled interval, raw weight percentages of sediment, within a given phi range. Some samples also have percentages of total gravel, sand, silt, clay, and statistical measurements such as mean, median, skewness, kurtosis, and standard deviation of grain size. These data are part of the larger NGDC digital grain size database. PURPOSE: Environmental Research CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date Issue ID: 41005002, 41015001, 41025001, 41055001, 41995001, 41995002, 65005001, 06245001, 15995012. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, wdc, mgg, boulder, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, ceos, world data center for marine geology and geophysics, boulder, usa, noaa, marine environment monitoring, sedimentary textures, earth science information partners program, ocean, geotechnical properties, oceans, esip, geographic region, marine sediments, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: 1996-1997 Raw data of CTD in Prydz Bay region of the southern Indian Ocean, CHINARE-13. ABSTRACT: A series of measurements in water temperature, conductivity and depth was carried out during the austral summer of 1996 97 within and the north of Prydz Bay, the southern Indian Ocean.25 oceanographic stations were successfully completed and 3.77MB CTD data were obtained.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Daily Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Innoko National Wildlife Refuge Landcover and Topography; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: The Innoko National Wildlife Refuge digital data sets contain land cover classifications derived from Landsat MSS data, and elevation, slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is from 50 meter grid cells and data source is Landsat MSS data and Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data. This data set contains 113 records. The amount of storage required varies by storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Data are available online. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. General area covered: 62 to 64 north to 155 to 45' to 160 to 15' west.. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, digital elevation model, landcover, arctic, vegetation, aedd, geology, mss, dem, innoko natl. wildlife refuge, field geology, united states of america, north america, alaska, george, land, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, satellite, land cover, wildlife, elevation, polar, models, blm, innoko, topography, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, landforms, alaska directory, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid (MOD10A2) contains data fields for maximum snow cover extent over an 8-day compositing period and a chronology of snow occurrence observations in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. MOD10A2 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Northern Information Network (NIN), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Northern Information Network (NIN) encourages information sharing about the Yukon, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut for more effective decision making in the areas such as resource management and economic development. NIN supports a variety of research initiatives in and about the North, including project impact assessments, sustainable development strategies, wildlife management planning, land-use planning, and emergency preparedness.To share information pertinent to the protection of the environment, economic development and social well-being in the North. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: land management, solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, natural resources, north, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, sea surface, northern hemisphere, geospatial, north america, human dimensions, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, land productivity, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land use, land cover, land surface, land resources, beaufort sea, sustainable development, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, economic resources, geographic region, western hemisphere, georeference, 
TITLE: Sea ice temperature data at the center site of Nella Fjord, 1997, CHINARE-13. ABSTRACT: Ice-water interface temperature data were collected in the center site (with water depth of 147.5 m) of Nella Fjord near Zhongshan Station from March to November, 1997. The data were obtained by using of 15 sets thermo-sensitive sensors with interval of 15 cm from ice surface to beneath upper water column. The objective is to get the in situ temperature distribution and seasonal changes of sea ice column and ice-water interface. Results indicated that large temperature gradient in the sea-ice column was recorded. The temperature difference between the ice surface and bottom ice can be over 10.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, nella fjord, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, sea ice temperature, thermistors, ocean temperature, field surveys, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ocean, amd, cn, sea ice, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Base map. ABSTRACT: Coastline, islands and iceshelf in the Arctic area. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: ArcInfo export file of the Arctic coastlines Projection: geographic Projection_desc: lat long Projection_meas: decimal degrees Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo export file of the Arctic coastlines derived from data received from the Norwegian Polar Institute.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, marine environments, arctic, earth science, ceos, coastal ecosystems, biosphere, oceans and seas, arctic base map, coastlines, unep, grid, coastal areas, ocean, un, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, coastal habitat, 
TITLE: Arctic Seismic Refraction Data As Velocity Profiles. ABSTRACT: This is an interpreted summary of Arctic seismic refraction data portrayed in velocity depth functions. The data covers the circum-Arctic. The summary includes input from colleagues in the US, Germany, Norway and Russia. This is a compilation of data from various sources.To illustrate the distribution of refraction data in the Arctic. One can determine the quality of the data that exists and where there needs to be more data collected. This summary provides good velocity information for research purposes. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, crustal tectonics, continent, gcmd, seismology, arctic, marine geophysics, none, nunavut, northwest territories, greenland, seismic profile, marine geology, north america, tectonics, crustal deformation, europe, polar, asia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, northern europe, lithospheric plate motion, canada, cgdi, canada, oceans, geographic region, crustal boundaries, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Biodiversity. ABSTRACT: The Arctic Ocean is unique on Earth in its physical and biological properties. It is the most extreme ocean in regard to the seasonality of light and its year-round existing ice cover. Current knowledge indicates that the Arctic seas hold a multitude of unique life forms highly adapted in their life history, ecology and physiology to the extreme and seasonal conditions of their environment. Our knowledge of what currently lives in the Arctic Ocean is still rudimentary compared to most other regions, due to the logistical challenges imposed by its multiyear ice and inhospitable climate. For more information please refer to this URL: http:  www.arcodiv.org. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, census of marine life, animals, invertebrates, coml, arctic, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, arcod, obis, arctic ocean biodiversity, ocean, sea ice, oceans, obis, us, geographic region, 
TITLE: RADARSAT Repeat-pass Interferometry. ABSTRACT: The feasibility of SAR interferomtry (InSAR) was examined and demonstrated using RADARSAT's Standard, Fine and ScanSAR modes. Based on evaluation of the projected equatorial satellite ground track drift, as provided by the Canadian Space Agency, several data sets with useful interferometric baselines over Bathurst Island, Northwest Territories, Canada were acquired. This study site provided dry and barren surface conditions, reducing the effects of temporal decorrelation over the 24-day repeat pass interval thus allowing generation of useful interferograms. For more information on the paper "RADARSAT SAR Interferometry using Standard, Fine and ScanSAR Modes" consult the following site: http:  radarsat.space.gc.ca ENG ADRO Symposium papers ADRO500.pdf. InSAR Image Pairs Used SITE NAME, DATE, NOMINAL TIME, PRODUCT, MODE Bathurst: Mar 2, 1996 23:57:42.601 M0004366 F4; Mar 26, 1996 23:57:55.392 M0004357 F4; Mar 4, 1996 13:02:33.636 M0004363 F5; Mar 28, 1996 13:02:46.088 M0004354 F5; Mar 6, 1996 23:40:57.512 M0004360 F1; Mar 30, 1996 23:41:08.269 M0004351 F1; Dec 10, 1997 14:00:57.838 M0152791 SCNA; Jan 3, 1998 14:00:56.805 M0152790 SCNA; Dec 10, 1997 23:58:06.387 M0152792 F4; Jan 3, 1998 23:58:05.003 M0152794 F4; Dec 11, 1997 23:28:32.478 M0152793 SCNA; Jan 4, 1998 23:28:31.155 M0152795 SCNA; Feb 22, 1997 23:45:17.563 M0110166 S5; Mar 18, 1997 23:45:03.248 M0110979 SCNB; Dec 2, 1996 23:37:07.300 M0102933 F1; Dec 26, 1996 23:37:06.916 M0102954 F1; Dec 3, 1996 13:11:04.470 c0004626 F4; Dec 27, 1996 13:11:03.491 c0004627 F4; Dec 2, 1996 00:06:20.409 M0102932 S7; Dec, 26, 1996 00:06:20.519 M0102953 S7; Feb 25, 1997 23:57:54.372 M0110502 F4; Mar 21, 1997 23:57;53.061 M0110983 F4; Bylot: Dec 4, 1996 22:37:34.081 M0102951 F2; Dec 26, 1996 22:37:32.868 c0004816 F2; Feb 26, 1997 11:51:54.72511:51:54.725 M0110451 F3; Mar 22, 1997 11:51:53.454 M0110978 F3; Schefferville: Dec 1, 1996 22:19:44.209 M0102931 F3; Dec 25, 1996 22:19:44.430 M0102952 F3; Feb 28, 1997 22:23:49.728 M0110453 F5; Mar 24, 1997 22:23:46.417 M0110981 F5.To investigate promising research of interferometric SAR (InSAR) techniques to accurately measure the topography change of the Earth's surface. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, terrain elevation, mid-latitude, arctic, earthquake occurrences, sigma naught, lake ice, surface roughness, northern hemisphere, topographic effects, snow cover, north america, sea ice, spectral, engineering, earthquake dynamics, land cover, bylot island, schefferville, topography, land use, land cover, freeze, thaw, sedimentation, radar imagery, landforms, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, orbital characteristics, topographical relief, erosion, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, radar reflectivity, shorelines, gcmd, snow melt, seismology, ice deformation, radar backscatter, nunavut, northwest territories, ice edges, platform characteristics, radar cross-section, snow, ice, vertical location, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, bathurst island, land surface, weathering, quebec, contours, coastal processes, viewing geometry, radar, landslides, 
TITLE: 1:5000000 map of Arctic Ocean area. ABSTRACT: This dataset is maps of Arctic Ocean area,their scales are 1:5000000,1:10000000 and 1:40000000.. KEYWORD: solid earth, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, arctic, cn, geographic region, map, reference systems, 
TITLE: Meridian Scanning Photometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2002. ABSTRACT: The Auroral Meridian Scanning Photometer is to measure the absolute intensity of aurora brightness along the geomagnetic meridian line. At present the MSP records three wavelengths of auroral emissions at 427.8, 557.7 and 630 nm respectively. The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, masp, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, photometers, zhongshan station, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectrophotometers, amd, ground stations, geographic region, mobile automatic scanning photometer, 
TITLE: Mining Inspection Division Water Quality Database - Yukon, Canada. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes water quantities used in placer mining operation and data on the effluent water quality of placer mining operations. Coverage is the Yukon Territory in Canada. The database is updated annually and will increase by the number of active placer mines in each year.The data is used to identify water used in placer mining on an individual, stream or drainage area basis. Placer mining effluents may also be arrayed on an individual project, stream or drainage area basis. The data could also be used to determine the effect of placer mining on fish an fish habitat. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Water Use License Number Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Transverse Mercator Scale Factor at Central Meridian: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, trace metals, gcmd, mid-latitude, arctic, none, rivers, stream habitat, northern hemisphere, north america, water quality, water chemistry, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, yukon territory, polar, water quantities, earth science, runoff, ceos, mining, biosphere, surface water, canada, cgdi, water quality, canada, fish habitat, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Seismic Experiment Ross Ice Shelf. ABSTRACT: A wide-angle reflection refraction experiment consisted of 4 deployments of 23-25 kilometers long receiving array, with 162 channels at intervals of 100- 300 meters. Two of deployments were situated mostly over the glaciers of the Transantarctic Mountains whereas the other two were on the Ross Ice Shelf. Shots for each deployment were detonated at each end of the receiving array andfarther away from the array with maximum offset of 90 km.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, amd, us, seismic refraction profiles, program for array seismic studies of the continental lithosphere, seismology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, seismic reflection profiles, glaciers, ice sheets, seismic profile, nsf, seismology, ice shelf, ice shelves, ross ice shelf, seismic reflection experiment, seismic refraction experiment, seris, ice sheets, ross ice shelf, passcal, amd, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge Data; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This digital data set on the Nowitna National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska, contains land cover classification derived from Landsat MSS data and elevation slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50-meter grid cells. Data source is Landsat MSS data; Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data. The data set contains 72 records. Data are organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. General area covered: 6345' to 6515' north to 153 to 156 west.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, terrain elevation, digital elevation model, landcover, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, birds, geology, mss, dem, field geology, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, nowitna natl. wildlife refuge, land cover, wildlife, elevation, polar, nowitna, models, topography, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, landforms, alaska directory, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, topographical relief, endangered species, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Baldwin and Dunkerton Northern Annular Mode Data (1958-2001). ABSTRACT: This data set consists of daily Northern Annular Mode (North Atlantic Oscillation Arctic Oscillation) data from 1958-2001 at 10-1000 hPa as described in Baldwin and Dunkerton, 2001. Data is available as an ASCII text file or a ZIP file.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, vertical location, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, north atlantic oscillation, northern annular mode, usa, nasa, arctic oscillation, troposphere, climate indicators, ao, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, northern hemisphere, ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, oscillations, nao, stratosphere, teleconnections, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 2 Local Area Coverage (LAC) Geophysical Ocean Color Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Level-2 Local Area Coverage (LAC) product is generated from a corresponding Level-1B product. The main data contents of the product are the geophysical values for each pixel, derived from the Level-1B radiances by applying the atmospheric corrections and bio-optical algorithms. Each Level-2 product corresponds exactly in geographical coverage (scan-line and pixel extent) to that of its parent Level-1B product and is stored in one physical HDF file. The resolution is the same as the corresponding level 1B file (1 km). The standard Ocean Color product contains the following geophysical values derived for each pixel: -Normalized water-leaving radiances at 412, 443, 488, 531, 551 & 667 nm -Chlorophyll a concentration -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm -Angstrom coefficient, 531 to 869 nm (for atmospheric correction) -Aerosol optical thickness at 869 nm (for atmospheric correction) In addition, 32 flags are associated with each pixel indicating if any algorithm failures or warning conditions occurred for that pixel. Detailed information on the Level-2 format specifications can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-2_Data_Products.pdf Level-2 processing is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 (MSl12) code, which is developed and maintained by the OBPG. MSL12 is used for the standard processing of all ocean products distributed through the web browsers and FTP sites. This software is capable of retrieving oceanic optical properties and various derived products from the observed top-of-atmosphere (TOA) radiances collected by a variety of ocean remote sensing radiometers, including MODIS. Full documentation, updated code source, sensor files, and output product descriptions can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MSL12 . For MODIS, the Level-1B file and the GEO file for each 5-minute granule are input to MSl12. The Level-2 processing also makes use of meteorological and ozone information from ancillary sources. In the near real-time (NRT) stream, climatological meteorological and ozone data are used. The NRT Quick Look products are then immediately available on the web browser and in the rolling FTP archive within 6-10 hours of observation. When the definitive attitude and orbit and coincident meteorological and ozone data are received several days later, they are used in the Refined processing stream, and the Level-2 products are regenerated. Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 2 Data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl?sen=am Aqua MODIS Level-2 daytime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Day  Aqua MODIS Level-2 nighttime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Night . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: DMSP SSM I Daily and Monthly Polar Gridded Bootstrap Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: DMSP SSM I Daily and Monthly Polar Gridded Bootstrap Sea Ice Concentrations in polar stereographic projection currently include Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) -F8, -F11, and -F13 daily and monthly sea ice concentrations. Using the Bootstrap algorithm, data gridded at a resolution of 25 x 25 km, begin 25 June 1987. Processing is ongoing. The Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) derived ice concentrations are daily total and monthly averaged ice fractions for both hemispheres. The data are provided in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF), with accompanying Graphical Interchange Format (GIF) browse files and are available via FTP.Note: Users interested in sea ice concentration using the NASA Team algorithm are advised to use Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, north america, sea ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, remote sensing, passive microwave data, brightness temperature, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, canada, ocean, oceans, amd, geographic region, chukchi sea, continent, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, sea ice extent, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, earth science information partners program, baffin bay, snow, ice, antarctic, sea ice age, gridded data, polar, bering sea, southern ocean, nsidc daac, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, ssm, i, amundsen sea, daac, esip, atlantic ocean, multiyear sea ice concentration, total sea ice concentration, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, ice concentration, 
TITLE: Active Layer and Permafrost Properties, Including Snow Depth, Soil Temperature, and Soil Moisture, Barrow, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains soil temperature, soil moisture, thaw depth, and snow depth data collected at test sites near Barrow, Alaska, during the following years. Soil temperature data - 1963-1966, 1993 Soil moisture data - 1963 Thaw depth - 1962-1968, 1991-1993 Snow depth - 1963-1964 This study focused on characterizing the active soil layer at Barrow, and determining the relationships between and among these physical properties at permafrost sites in the Arctic. This site is U1 of the IPA's Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program and later measurements are available at the CALM Web site.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, soil moisture, water content, barrow, alaska, usa, ggd, thermocouples, arcss, laii, arctic, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, arctic system science, agriculture, usa, nsf, united states of america, thermal properties, ground ice, north america, alaska, soil temperature, soil depth probe, permafrost properties, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, meteorology, circumpolar active layer monitoring program, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, monitoring, arcss, laii, flux, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, calm, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, snow, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, 
TITLE: Benthic fauna in the Pechora Sea (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: Quantitative samples of benthic fauna were collected at 15 stations for analysis of species distribution and faunal composition. Multivariate statistics indicate that the sampling stations cover a heterogeneous area with different types of community composition, as might be expected, since the Pechora Sea encompasses a wide range of depths and oceanographic conditions. However, some distinct station groupings were evident, which are considered to represent different faunal community types. Around the Island of Kolguyev, the fauna was dominated by sub-surface detritivorous Polychaeta. On the coast of Novaya Zemlya, the Chernaya Fjord contained an opportunistic faunal composition. The deep area immediately south of Novaya Zemlya was characterised by high numbers of large, surface deposit feeding Polychaeta. The Kara Strait area showed some spatial variation in faunal characteristics, but generally contained high numbers of surface deposit feeding Polychaeta and Crustacea, as well as encrusting suspensivores on stones. The stations sampled between Kolguyev and the Pechora Bay contained large amounts of macrofaunal Foraminifera and detritivorous Polychaeta, while the fauna sampled in the Pechora Bay was typical of northern, low salinity environments. Canonical correspondence analyses indicate that water depth and sediment type play a major role in structuring the benthic fauna. The distribution of community types described in this investigation largely follow those outlined in previous Russian investigations, despite the use of different analytical strategies. This investigation provides the background for an intercomparison of methodologies in faunal analyses. Size reference: 1300 records [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, arthropods, echinoderms, eurobis, taxonomy, bryozoans, moss animals, obis, pechora sea, burrows, spoon worms, aquatic ecosystems, segmented worms (annelids), marine habitat, barents sea, census of marine life, benthos, benthic fauna, coml, peanut worms, earth science, lamp shells, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, priapulans, tunicates, benthic habitat, ocean, 
TITLE: Real Time Satellite Images of Chlorophyll Concentration. ABSTRACT: The ocean color images in this database are created using data collected by China's FY1-D satellite. Approximately 2 of these passes per day are recorded with an L-Band satellite dish. The FY1-D satellite has 10 channels in the visible and infrared spectrum and provides 1km resolution data.. KEYWORD: ocean chemistry, infrared wavelengths, visible imagery, pigments, china's meteorological satellite-1, fy-1, north atlantic ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, infrared imagery, usa, nasa, ocean color, visible wavelengths, ocean, gulf of mexico, oceans, spectral, engineering, ocean optics, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with IKMT by 13th CHINARE in 1996-1997. ABSTRACT: 16 of IKMT sapmles were collected from the Southern Ocean. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: SHEBA Reconnaissance Imagery. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of optical band reconnaissance imagery of the Surface Heat Balance of the Arctic (SHEBA) site acquired between August 1997 and September 1998. The images cover a variable area on the order of 15 km by 40 km, at a resolution of about 1 m. Some, but not all of the images contain the SHEBA experiment platform (the Canadian icebreaker Des Groseillers). The National Imagery and Mapping Agency approved the release of the imagery at the request of the National Science Foundation (NSF).. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, visible imagery, arctic, opp9726988, usa, noaa, arctic system science, noaa, satellite imagery, optical band imagery, spectral, engineering, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, g02180, polar, arcss, oaii, sheba, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, sheba, adcc, opp-9321416, opp-9726988, visible wavelengths, national science foundation, geographic region, nima, arcss, opp9321416, 
TITLE: The Dehn Collection of Arctic Sea Ice Charts, 1953-1986. ABSTRACT: The National Snow and Ice Data Center World Data Center for Glaciology, Boulder (NSIDC WDC) holds a collection of charts depicting ice conditions in the seas off Alaska and western Canada coasts. Ice edge position and some ice concentration and other information are included, though the notations on the charts are often sparse and discontinuous in space and time, especially for older charts in the series. These charts, more that 6,800 in number, were donated to NSIDC by the estate of William H. Dehn. NSIDC has partnered with the NOAA Climate Database Modernization Program (CDMP) and the National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC) to scan the charts and to make them available through a searchable interface.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, ice charts, sea ice concentration, arctic, usa, noaa, visible spectrometer, aerial reconnaissance, ice analyses, usa, nsf, sea ice, visual observations, north pacific ocean, satellites, polar, bering sea, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, pacific ocean, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, beaufort sea, ships, infrared radiometers, ocean, climatology, ice compactness, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Water Velocity data from the Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment 1991 (MLML91). ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland in 2822m of water. Data is available from a mooring fielded from April 29-September 6, 1991. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Water Velocities Data from this experiment include: 12384 records Sample Rate: 900 seconds (15 Minute) Depth Bins: 20 bins, at 10, 30, 50, 70, 86, 102, 118, 134, 150, 166, 182, 198, 214, 230, 246, 262, 278, 294, and 310 m Variables: velocity east and north are provided, in cm s. Instruments include: Vector Averaging Wind Recorder, Brancker Temperature recorder, and Multi-Variable Moored System See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml91 mlml91vel.html". KEYWORD: ocean currents, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean waves, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Snow Depth Measurements from Barrow, Alaska, 1994. ABSTRACT: This data set contains snow depth measurements (cm) taken at the ARCSS 1-m grid near Barrow, Alaska, on May 8, 1994. A grid spacing of 100 m was marked with wooden stakes. Snow pack depth was then measured by probing at the stakes prior to meltout. The grid yielded an 11x11 array with 121 data points. Note to users: This data set previously contained both snow depth measurements and soil temperature data from Happy Valley and Barrow, Alaska. For information on soil temperatures, click the link under See Also (Soil Temperatures for Happy Valley and Barrow, Alaska).. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, arctic, usa, noaa, opp-9214897, arctic system science, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, probes, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, barrow, polar, bcs9308334, arctic system science data coordination center, opp9214897, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, arcss037, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, bcs-9308334, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, 
TITLE: National Coal Resources Data System; USGS. ABSTRACT: The basic National Coal Resources Data System (NCRDS) allows users to interactively retrieve information on coal quantity and quality and to build new resource data from ongoing research on the geology of coal by the U.S. Geological Survey and state agencies. The NCRDS is an automated system. Data bases accessed contain some proprietary data. Access to non-U.S. Geological Survey users is limited to nonproprietary data. NCRDS is a user-oriented computerized storage, retrieval, and display system devised by the U.S. Geological Survey to assess the quantity and quality of national coal resources. The U.S. Geological Survey has initiated a 5- to 10-year program to provide point-source coverage for the coal-bearing rocks in the U.S. Cooperative projects with many state geologic agencies have been funded to supplement U.S. Geological Survey work and to amass the volume of data required to assess U.S. coal resources. Currently, files containing summary areal coal tonnage estimates and proximate ultimate chemical analyses and point-located major, minor, and trace-element analyses are available. The point-source files are used to calculate resource estimates and to depict trends in the occurrence and chemical characteristics of coal. Primary data for measurements, coal-bed outcrop patterns, burned, channeled, and mined-out areas, and geochemical analyses. System software can calculate coal resource estimates, generate overburden or interburden distribution, and delineate areas of coal with selected quality parameters (for example, >1 percent sulfur, <50 ppm Zinc) within specified boundaries, (for example, county, quadrangle, or lease tract). Data may be displayed descriptively by preformated tables, user-determined listings, and selected statistics or graphically by two-and three-dimensional diagrams, trend surfaces, isoline maps, and stratigraphic sections. The system runs on a SUN Network of servers and workstations located in Reston, VA. and Denver, CO.. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, continent, natural resources, coal resources, arctic, coal bed, aedd, geology, stratigraphy, borehole, united states of america, north america, isotopes, alaska, carbonate percentage, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, sedimentary rocks, alaska directory, coal, rocks, minerals, radiocarbon, geographic region, usgs, carbon isotopes, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Ozone data on the Zhongshan station during the 18th CHINARE in 2002. ABSTRACT: Recode part data by ozone spectroapparatus in ZhongShan station. Those data include ozone and S02 data by BREWER exploration which happened on noon time at that time the radiation between the scope 290-325nm, 95-300nm, 300-305nm, 305-310nm, 310-315nm, 315-320nm, 320-325nm, 300.5nm 324nm, W m2. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, nitrogen compounds, nitrous oxide, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, omi, antarctica, ultraviolet radiation, nitrogen dioxide, zhongshan station, atmospheric chemistry, observatories, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, sulfur compounds, south pole, ozone monitoring instrument, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 17th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 17th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, visible radiance, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, ocean, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Cloud Mask and Spectral Test Results 5-Min L2 Swath 250m and 1km (Collection 004 and 005). ABSTRACT: MODIS was launched aboard the Terra satellite on December 18, 1999 (10:30 am equator crossing time) as part of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) mission. MODIS with its 2330 km viewing swath width provides almost daily global coverage. It acquires data in 36 high spectral resolution bands between 0.415 to 14.235 micron with spatial resolutions of 250m(2 bands), 500m(5 bands), and 1000m (29 bands). MODIS sensor counts, calibrated radiances, geolocation products and all derived geophysical atmospheric and ocean products are archived at NASA Goddard DAAC and has been made available to public since April 2000. The MODIS level-2 cloud mask product is a global product generated for both daytime & nighttime conditions at 1-km spatial resolution (at nadir) and for daytime at 250-m resolution. The algorithm employs a series of visible and infrared threshold and consistency tests to specify confidence levels that an unobstructed view of the Earth's surface is observed. An indication of shadows affecting the scene is also provided. The 250-m cloud mask flags are based on the visible channel data only. Radiometrically accurate radiances are required, so holes in the cloud mask will appear wherever the input radiances are incomplete or of poor quality. The shortname for this Level-2 MODIS cloud mask product is MOD35_L2 and the principal investigator for this product is MODIS scientist Dr. Paul Menzel ( paulm@ssec.wisc.edu). MOD35_L2 product files are stored in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS). Each of the 9 gridded parameters is stored as a Scientific Data Set (SDS) within the HDF-EOS file. The Cloud Mask and Quality Assurance SDS's are stored at 1 kilometer pixel resolution. All other SDS's (those relating to time, geolocation, and viewing geometry) are stored at 5 kilometer pixel resolution. Each file is roughly 47.5 MB in size, and the total data volume is approximately 13.7 GB day. MOD35_L2 Data Group & Parameters Spatial & Temporal Resolution: Latitude & Longitude Scan start time Solar and Sensor Viewing Geometry: Solar zenith & Solar azimuth angle Sensor zenith & Sensor azimuth angle Science Parameters Cloud Mask (1km) Cloud Mask (250 m) Quality Assurance Parameters: Quality Assurance Flags (1km) Link to the MODIS homepage for more data set information: http:  modis-atmos.gsfc.nasa.gov MOD35_L2 . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, mod35_l2, earth observing system (eos), terra, clear sky pixels, terra, cloud shadow, arctic, eos, echo, global, clouds, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, cloud detection, earth observing system, terra (am-1), cloud fraction, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sun-glint, modis cloud mask, global ocean, cirrus cloud, modis, polar, cloud types, pacific ocean, earth science, usa, nasa, cloud coverage, cloud screening, cloud height, cloud amount, frequency, cloud obstruction, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Main Meteorological Observations (Four Synoptic Hours) from the WDC-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The SROKI data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include air temperature, dew point, pressure, humidity, winds, clouds, sunshine duration, and soil temperature for Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, sroki, sunshine, arctic, air temperature, clouds, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, humidity, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, europe, surface winds, polar, cloud types, asia, earth science, solar radiation, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, water vapor, geographic region, eurasia, atmospheric radiation, dew point temperature, sunshine duration, 
TITLE: Ice core climate signals from Mount Logan, Yukon, A.D. 1700-1987, Climate Since A.D. 1500 Database, WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: Data from Holdsworth et al. Mount Logan oxygen isotope (delta O-18) and net accumulation data (meters of water equivalent, per year) (Figures 25.3 and 25.4 in Bradley and Jone (1992)).. KEYWORD: continent, past global changes, igbp, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, pages, north america, isotopes, snow, ice, igbp, ground-based observations, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, ice cores, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, d18o, yukon, canada, ice core records, geographic region, snow water equivalent, mount logan, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Soil Temperatures from Disko Island (Qeqertarsuaq Godhavn), Greenland. ABSTRACT: A meteorological station at 69 deg 15'N, 53 deg 34'W, Godhavn village, Greenland, measured air temperatures at 6 m above the ground, and soil temperatures (deg C) at 0.05 m, 0.6 m, 1.75 m, and 3 m below the surface. The station automatically measured data every half hour. Data extend from 01 January 1991 to 16 November 2002. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, global geocryological data system, continent, polar, atmospheric temperature, ggd, surface air temperature, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, greenland, thermal properties, north america, qeqertarssuaq, godhavn, greenland, frozen ground, soil temperature, soil properties, geographic region, soils, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Marine Birds from Coastal Alaska and Puget Sound Data. ABSTRACT: Marine Bird Sighting, Ship Aircraft Census (F033) is one of a group of seven datasets related to Marine Birds from Coastal Alaska and Puget Sound Data (1974 -1982). Each dataset uses the NODC Taxonomic Code to indicate species. Marine Bird Sighting, Ship Aircraft Census (F033) contains data from field observations of marine birds made along ship or aircraft survey tracks. These data are collected to provide information on population density and distribution. Start and end position, date and elapsed time, speed and course, platform type and observing techniques are reported for each survey. Environmental information may include meteorological and sea surface conditions, distances to the shoreline and shelf break, ice characteristics within and outside each transect and surface debris, including oil slicks. Species data may include age, sex, color, plumage, number of individuals, direction of flight, behavior and food source association. Any number of species may be reported within one observation time span. These data were collected from 1975 - 1982 for coastal Alaska and adjacent North Pacific Ocean. NOAAServer Codes: [OL 72 48 -130 -180] ; nodateline obtain. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, cop, ecological dynamics, ocseap, arctic, usa, noaa, birds, earth science information partners program, united states of america, mesa, north america, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, coastal ocean program, coastal habitat, polar, species predation, marine ecosystems analysis (puget sound) project, ocean continental shelf environmental assessment project, community dynamics, aircraft, earth science, ceos, biosphere, population dynamics, trophic dynamics, animals, vertebrates, ecosystem functions, coast, nutrition, ships, community structure, ocean weather stations, ocean, species, population interactions, bird population, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: International Tundra Experiment (ITEX) data at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: The International Tundra Experiment, ITEX, was established in 1990 as a MAB-NSN initiative (Man-And-the-Biosphere, Northern Sciences Network). Since then the programme has grown rapidly and is today one of the most active international field programmes in arctic ecology. The purpose of ITEX is to monitor the performance of plant species and communities on a circumpolar basis in undisturbed habitats with and without environmental manipulations. At present, there are over twenty active ITEX field sites throughout the circumpolar Arctic and in some alpine areas, operated by field parties from thirteen countries. The basic experiment is a temperature enhancement manipulation, where the field mean surface temperature is increased by 2-3 degrees C to simulate the climate at the middle of the next century according to the forecast from the GCMs (General Circulation Models). Most of the results generated within ITEX so far relate to the response of single species, but from the field season of 1995 the experimentation was scaled up to include community-level responses. There are also ITEX research efforts dealing with plant phenotypic plasticity and quantitative genetics of some of the target species.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, alpine, tundra, ecological dynamics, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, usa, noaa, mab, northern hemisphere, temperature enhancement manipulation, ground-based observations, polar, man-and-the-biosphere, international tundra experiment, circumpolar artcic, arctic ecology, surface air temperature, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, itex, community structure, geographic region, plant characteristics, 
TITLE: Atmospheric Boundary Layer Experiment (ABLE_3A) Electra Chemical Data from the Global Tropospheric Experiment (GTE). ABSTRACT: The ABLE missions have been designed specifically to study the rate of exchange of material between the Earth's surface and its atmospheric boundary layer, and the processes by which gases and aerosols are moved between the boundary layer and the 'free' troposphere. These expeditions are conducted in ecosystems of the world that are known to exert a major influence on global atmospheric chemistry. In some cases, these ecosystems are undergoing profound changes as a consequence of natural processes and or human impact.ABLE 3A is a component of the NASA Global Tropospheric Experiment (GTE) sponsored by the NASA Tropospheric Chemistry Program. The Arctic Boundary Layer Expedition (ABLE 3A) was conducted in Arctic and sub-Arctic regions of North America and Greenland during July and August 1988. ABLE 3A was the first comprehensive investigation of the sources, sinks, and distribution of trace gas and aerosol chemical species in a northern high-latitude region during summer months. The ABLE 3A experimental design placed emphasis on the role of biosphere-atmosphere interactions in determining the chemical composition of the troposphere and on processes which influence the tropospheric ozone budget. The suite of chemical species measured included the following gases: methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, total "reactive" nitrogen gas, nitric acid, peroxyacetyl nitrate, peroxypropionyl nitrate, ozone, and aerosol chemical composition and size distribution. The instruments used included a capacitive sensor, chilled mirror, Differential Absorption Lidar (DIAL), electron capture detector-gas chromatograph, grab samples gas chromatograph, inertial navigation system, photoelectric cell, resistance temperature detector, two photon laser induced fluorescence, and a tunable diode laser. The ABLE 3A results indicate that human activities may have already enhanced total "reactive" nitrogen inputs to the Arctic and Sub-Arctic regions to the extent that the lifetime of ozone against photochemical loss may have already doubled. This data set consists of the aircraft measurements of chemical species. There are also ABLE 3A data sets for a ground site (GTE_A3A_TOWER), for isentropic back trajectories generated for the program time frame (GTE_A3A_MET_TRAJ) and a data set for airborne flux measurements of trace species (GTE_A3A_ELEC_FLUX). These data sets are also available from the Langley DAAC.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, idn_node gsfc, larc_daac, atmospheric temperature, propane, arctic, methyl nitrate, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, molecular nitrogen, spectral, engineering, gte, acetylene, air quality, nitric oxide, peroxyacetyl nitrate, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, barometric altitude, peroxypropionyl nitrate, carbon monoxide, solar radiation, pentane, light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation, total 'reactive' nitrogen, sensor characteristics, ultraviolet wavelengths, aerosol radiance, atmospheric chemistry, gas chromatographs, earth observing system data information system, ocean, canada, global tropospheric experiment, methane, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, dehavilland twin otter, continent, altitude, perchloroethene, aerosols, differential absorption lidar, boundary layer, reactive nitrogen oxides, air temperature, troposphere, ozone, eosdis, lasers, greenland, tropospheric ozone, earth science information partners program, united states of america, non-methane hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds, butane, aerosol extinction, dial, vertical location, polar, carbon dioxide, sulfate particles, ultraviolet sensor temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, usa, nasa, ultraviolet flux, atmospheric pressure, tundra, nasa electra, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ethane, nitrogen oxides, nitrate particles, dhc-6, esip, 
TITLE: Frontier Oil and Gas Production - National Energy Board, Canada. ABSTRACT: This data set contains oil and gas production statistics from the Frontier areas regulated by the National Energy Board.The information is provided publicly, pursuant to the Canada Petroleum Resources Act in order to promote the safety of workers, protection of the environment, conservation of the hydrocarbon resources and to increase scientific knowledge of and efficient utilization of hydrocarbon resources. The principle uses are expected to be assessing the potential of petroleum resources, the planning of hydrocarbon exploration programs and production operations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, norman wells, natural resources, mid-latitude, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, pointed mountain, oil, northern hemisphere, north america, gas, petroleum, polar, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, rocks, minerals, bent horn, arctic islands, geographic region, western hemisphere, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: NOAA NMC CAC Arctic and Antarctic Monthly Sea Ice Extent, 1973-1990. ABSTRACT: Sea ice extent from January 1973 through August 1990 was digitized from weekly operational sea ice charts produced by the Navy NOAA Joint Ice Center. Charts were digitized by hand using a 1 latitude x 2.5 longitude grid. The grid boxes were then summed in 1 latitude x 10 longitude slices, and the ice covered area computed. The data represent the extent of sea ice at the end of each month, given for 36 10-degree longitudinal sectors in each hemisphere. Data were provided by the NOAA National Weather Service National Meteorological Center (NMC) Climate Analyses Center (CAC).. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, continent, sea ice concentration, arctic, north atlantic ocean, usa, noaa, aqua, model input data, sea ice, baffin bay, visual observations, ground stations, antarctic, north pacific ocean, ground-based observations, gridded data, satellites, bering sea, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, antarctica, amundsen sea, digitizer, ships, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, chukchi sea, 
TITLE: Monitoring Avian Productivity and Survivorship (MAPS) program in Denali National Park. ABSTRACT: Purpose: The purpose of the MAPS program is to provide annual indices of adult population size and post-fledging productivity, as well as estimates of adult survivorship and recruitment into the adult population, for various land bird species. Broad-scale data on productivity and survivorship are not obtained from any other avian monitoring program in North America and are needed to provide crucial information upon which to initiate research and management actions to reverse the recently-documented declines in North American land bird populations. A second objective of the MAPS is to provide standardized population and demographic data for the land birds found on federally managed public lands, such as national parks, national forests and military installations. Abstract: MAPS continued to grow from 178 stations in 1992 to 236 stations in 1993 (a 33% increase) and to 326 stations in 1994 (a 38% increase). Changes between 1992 and 1993 in adult population size and post-fledging productivity were determined from 144 stations operated in a constant-effort in the two years, while changes between 1993 and 1994 were derived from constant-effort data from 213 stations operated comparably in both years. Indices of adult population size generally tended to decrease between 1992 and 1993 all across the continent; the decreases in the Northwest were highly significant and may have been caused by the low recruitment of new breeders due to heavy, late-lingering snowpacks in montane areas throughout the Northwest Region. The patterns of decreases across the continent generally mirrored analagous patterns from the North American Breeding Survey (BBS). Productivity (proportion of young in the catch) also decreased significantly in the Northwest, but tended to increase elsewhere, particularly in the Northeast Region. Indices of adult population size tended to remain stable between 1993 and 1994 in the Northwest, tended to decline in the North-central Region, and showed mixed trends over the rest of the continent; most species that declined in 1993 appeared to recover somewhat in 1994. Population changes from MAPS between 1993 and 1994 mirrored analagous changes from BBS only in western regions. Productivity increased significantly in 1994 in the Northwest and tended to increase slightly in most other regions. Productivity indices were affected significantly by year, nest location, and migration strategy; cavity nesters and permanent resident species showed the highest productivity indices, while tree and (especially) shrub nesters and Neotropical-wintering species showed the lowest. Estimates of adult survival rates were obtained from four years (1991-1994) of data for the Northwest and Northeast regions and for all of eastern North America using the standard Cormack-Jolly-Seber ("non-transient") model and a newly developed "transient" model that provides estimates for the proportion of (summer) resident individuals among newly-captured adults and the survival probability of those resident birds. The transient model was selected as the most appropriate (or a competing) model [by means fo the Akaike Information Criterion (AID) for about 62% of the species. On average,use of the transient model increased estimates of survival and recapture probabilities by 34% and 41%, respectively, with little or no loss in the precision of the estimates. The increase in precision of estimates of survival rates by including a fourth year of data was comparable to a seven-fold increase in the number of stations contributing data. Geographic Description: Denali National Park- 8 MAPS stations. Denali National Park and Preserve is located in the central Alaska Range, approximately 210 km southwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. The study area encompasses the Road Corridor which is 1 km on either side of the main park road, 150 km long and extending westward from the park entrance at the Parks Highway (63.73, 148.92) to the airfield near Kantishna (63.53, 151.00). Methodology: The operation of each of the five stations during 1996 and during each of the preceding four years followed MAPS protocol, which is described in detail in "Monitoring Avian Productivity and Survivorship (MAPS) in Denali Naitonal Park", a handbook of the field and analytiques needed to monitor primary demographic parameters of landbirds in Denali National Park.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, denali national park and preserve, ecological dynamics, arctic, arctic warbler, mistnetting, birds, monitoring avian productivity and survivorship program, effort data, boreal chickadee, dark-eyed junco, united states of america, north america, swainson's thrush, alaska, avian survivorship, species recruitment, long-term monitoring, habitat maps, polar, maps, community dynamics, earth science, banding, ceos, white-crowned sparrow, orange-crowned warbler, biosphere, data collection, population dynamics, avian productivity, animals, vertebrates, american tree sparrow, species, population interactions, denali park, monitoring avian productivity and survivorship in denali national park, wilson's warbler, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 25 km EASE-Grid Composites. ABSTRACT: The AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 25 km EASE-Grid Composites are a collection of products for both poles, consisting of twice-daily gridded and calibrated satellite channel data and derived parameters. Data include five Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) channels, clear sky surface broadband albedo and skin temperature, average albedo and temperature, valid fraction file, solar zenith angle, satellite elevation angle, sun-satellite relative azimuth angle, surface type mask, cloud mask, cloud fraction files, and Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) of acquisition. The 25-km data are derived from the AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 5 km EASE-Grid Composites, and extend poleward from 48.4 degrees north and 53.2 degrees south latitudes, spanning July 1981 through December 2000. Data are in 1-byte and 2-byte integer grid format and are available by FTP. Note: NSIDC reccommends the use of the Extended AVHRR Polar Pathfinder (APP-x) Product, located at http:  stratus.ssec.wisc.edu products appx appx.html , instead of our AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 25 km EASE-Grid Composites. The APP-x 25 km product has albedo and temperature calculations for all sky conditions. Cloud properties are modeled to estimate the albedo and temperature under the clouds. An improved cloud detection algorithm is also used in the APP-x product.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, surface radiative properties, arctic, visible radiance, usa, noaa, noaa, land surface temperature, thermal properties, noaa-14, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, albedo, thermal infrared, infrared wavelengths, pathfinder, remote sensing, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, skin temperature, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, land temperature, amd, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, atmospheric radiation, continent, clouds, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, platform characteristics, satellite, snow, ice, avhrr, antarctic, radiance, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, viewing geometry, nasa, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, noaa-7, esip, 
TITLE: G. Dissemination Area Reference Maps, by Census Tract, for Census Metropolitan Areas and Census Agglomerations, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The set of Dissemination Area Reference Maps by Census Tract covers all 27 census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and the 19 census agglomerations (CAs) that are part of the census tract program. Each map in the set covers one census tract (CT) and shows the boundaries and codes of dissemination areas within that CT. The maps also show census tract, census subdivision, and census metropolitan area or census agglomeration boundaries on a background of detailed street networks and other visible features such as rivers, lakes and railroad tracks. There are 6,157 maps in this set. (The dimensions of each map are approximately 27 cm by 43 cm (11 inches by 17 inches). Map scales vary according to the size of the census tract; thus the maps cannot be cut and pasted together. In cases where there is too much detail to show on one map, the census tract may be split into two or more maps. Clients are not charged for the extra maps resulting from the CT split. A reference guide is available (92F0146GIE). Note: Dissemination area reference maps are also available for smaller urban centres, that is, non-tracted census agglomerations (92F0147XCB, 92F0147XIB, 92F0147XPB), and by census division for areas outside census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations (92F0148XCB, 92F0148XIB, 92F0148XPB). Together, the three sets of dissemination area maps cover all of Canada. Catalogue number for free Internet usage: 92F0146XIB01000 Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0146XCB01000, Catalogue number print-on-demand is: 92F0146XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The maps are designed to enable users to identify the general location and boundaries of the geographic areas for which 2001 Census data are available. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, dissemination areas, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: Arctic and Antarctic Sea Ice Concentration, monthly, Walsh et al.. ABSTRACT: Using various sources for sea ice concentration John Walsh and Bill Chapman have derived a monthly time series of Arctic and Antarctic sea ice concentration.. KEYWORD: ice extent, polar, usa, ncar, sea ice, arctic, earth science, gridding methods, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Weather data at the Zhongshan station during the 21st CHINARE in 2004. ABSTRACT: The antarctic Zhongshan weather station of China which was set up in Feb. 2004 located in Larsmann hills, its station number is 89573.The antarctic Zhongshan weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time 02,08,14,20),and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items includes clouds, visibility, weather phenomenon, wind direction, wind speed, temperature, humidity, air pressure, sunlight, soil temperature, precipitation etc.And now,it also observes atmospheric ozone amount and makes site weather forecast for science research.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, wind profiles, air temperature, clouds, precipitation, amd, cn, humidity, air quality, polar, visibility, fixed observation stations, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, antarctica, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, amd, geographic region, aws, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: GISP2 (D Core) Methane Concentration Data. ABSTRACT: This ice core data is archived at the World Data Center for Paleoclimatology and is available through the Ice Core Data Gateway. The data includes methane data from the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2 (GISP2). GISP2 is an ice core project that drilled through the Greenland ice sheet and 1.55 meters into bedrock. The ice core is 3053.44 meters in depth, the deepest ice core recovered in the world at the time. The ice core was completed in 1993 after five years of drilling. Methane concentrations were determined by GC-FID using standards calibrated by NOAA CMDL. The gas age time scales and analytical techniques are described in further detail in the publication.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, earth science, ceos, coring devices, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, gisp2, greenland, north america, greenland ice sheet project ii, methane, ice core records, 
TITLE: 2km long Surface Conductivity Profile and video recording, Scharffenbergbotnen. ABSTRACT: Location: Scharffenbergbotnen blue ice area, Heimefrontfjella Electrical Conductivity profile of the surface blue ice (stretching ~2.5km from near the ice fall). At the same time a video recording of the surface ice was made. Positions of the records can be tied together with DGPS.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, electrical properties, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, paleoclimate, ablation zones, accumulation zones, amd, fi, glaciers, ice sheets, particulate matter, amd, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: 1997-1998 Raw data of CTD in Prydz Bay region of the southern Indian Ocean, CHINARE-14. ABSTRACT: A series of measurements in water temperature, conductivity and depth was carried out during the austral summer of 1997 98 within and the north of Prydz Bay, the southern Indian Ocean.15 oceanographic stations were successfully completed.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Geological Survey of Canada Open File Report 3125 Magnetic Anomalies of the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans and Adjacent Land Areas. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The main objective of this project was to combine into a coherent grid, observations made during a period of several decades in different geographic locations and under variable circumstances. Many observations, especially the shipborne data, were collected continuously during the surveys, often in remote areas, with almost no regard with respect to the 'activity' of the geomagnetic field. Most of the aeromagnetic surveys were flown under conditions that are more restrictive. Lines were re-flown if magnetic conditions did not meet certain criteria. To combine these different sets into a coherent grid, it is very important to account for variations in the Earth's magnetic field. The shipborne data consists of 671 cruises collected during the period 1956-1992, a total of about 3 million line kilometers. Anomalies were re-calculated from the total field intensities using the appropriate IGRF coefficients (IAGA, 1991). Spikes and tares were identified and eliminated, with visual editing as a final step. After editing, the database consists of 659 cruises with a total of 6,540,581 data points. The aeromagnetic database consists of 145 surveys flown during 1966-1992. Generally, a fourth order difference filter was applied to detect erroneous points and to replace them with values obtained from a Naudy filter. After the fourth order processing, data were re-gridded to the standard grid: Transverse Mercator with a 5 km cell size and a central meridian of 50W. No extrapolation occurred beyond the limits of the original grid during the re-gridding process. At the conclusion of the processing, three independent data sets were available. About 900 internally adjusted shipborne data sets (685 surveys are entirely inside the study region), 150 uncombined aeromagnetic surveys, and about 25 different grids or as digitized contours data sets. The next step was to combine these data into one regional grid. The data sets were merge at the elevations that they were received. Each of the three data sets were gridded and then to these grids combined. Aeromagnetic data had higher preference during the merging process. The grids were combined in a standard merging procedure, using as a routine a 15 km overlap to taper one data set to the next. Rather than massaging the data and bending the grids to match, it was decided to remove from each grid the wavelengths longer than 400 km using the Hanning filter. Although it is difficult to give a complete quantitative analysis of the accuracy of the final magnetic grid, two attempts were made. The first attempt was a cross-over analysis. For a description of the second, a qualitative assessment, please see the Open File Report. The cross-over analysis gives an overall accuracy of observations at intersection points. The combined shipborne and aeromagnetic data set has a standard deviation of about 25-50 nT for most of the area, except in the northern part of the region, where it increases to about 100 nT. PURPOSE: The purpose of the project was to develop a digital data base of coherent magnetic observations suitable for quantitative tectonic interpretations. The data described here are the magnetic anomaly (long wavelength removed) gamma5 grid. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition SPATIAL DATA ORGANIZATION INFORMATION Indirect Spatial Reference: Unknown Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Grid Cell Row Count: 1800 Column Count: 1361 SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Ellipsoid Name: International Ellipsoid Semi-major Axis: 63712040 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 1 NATIVE: These data are stored on 3480 magnetic tape and on CD-ROM in binary format with format description and metadata files at the NGDC WDC-A. Data are stored in multiple locations in climate controlled environments.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, magnetic field, magnetometers, natural resources, magnetic intensity, arctic, north atlantic ocean, metals, usa, noaa, faults, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, earth science information partners program, scandinavia, russia, north america, sweden, tectonics, europe, magnetic anomalies, finland, polar, aircraft, earth science, ceos, iceland, northern europe, russian federation, eastern europe, non-metallic minerals, canada, ocean, geomagnetism, norway, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Dataset of CTD from the 3th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1986 1987. ABSTRACT: From Jan. of 1986 to Feb. of 1987, Twenty-eight CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Bransfield Strait. This data set include: Site No.; Latitude,Longitude,Start-Time (LT),Bottom Depth(m),Cable Angle.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bransfield strait, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Physical and Biological Factors Associated with Avian Cholera in Wetland Ecosystems. ABSTRACT: Purpose: 1. Determine whether wetlands are an important source of the avian cholera bacterium. - determine if P. multocida can be detected in marsh environments prior to avian cholera outbreaks. - evaluate the persistence of P. multocida in marshes following avian cholera outbreaks. 2. Determine the environmental factors that are associated with increased risk of avian cholera outbreaks and with persistence of P. multocida in wetlands. - evaluate the association of avian cholera outbreaks and selected wetland characteristics. - determine whether the persistence and survival of P. multocida in marshes is associated with wetland characteristics. Avian cholera, caused by the bacterium Pasterurella multocida, is a major disease of waterfowl and other wetland-dependent birds in North America. This explosive cause of mortality has infected over 100 species of wild birds and is the second most common disease of wildfowl in North America. The disease was unknown in wild birds in North America until the 1940s, although it had been an important disease of domestic poultry since the 1800s. Between 1944 and 1975, recurrent outbreaks of avian cholera in wild waterfowl were limited to the Playa Lakes area of Texas and the central valley San Francisco Bay area of California. Since 1975, avian cholera has increased in distribution and magnitude across North America, with epizootics ocurring annually at numerous locations from arctic breeding grounds to southern winterning areas. Losses of 1,000 birds per day occur frequently, with cummulative losses periodically exceeding tens of thousands in a single outbreak. Wildfowl losses to avian cholera have exceeded 25,000 birds during several outbreaks in the Chesapeake Bay and in Nebraska's Rainwater Basin. Two competing hypotheses have been proposed to explain the recurrence of avian cholera outbreaks: 1) carrier animals reintroduce the disease as migratory birds congregate on staging and wintering areas, and 2) P. multocida persists in specific wetlands year-round in water, soil, or other reservoirs. Concurrent research at the National Wildlife Health Center (NWHC) is focusing on the suspected role of snow geese as carriers of avian cholera. However, little research has been done to systematically investigate the hypothesis that wetlands serve as the principal source of P. multocida that initiates avian cholera outbreak. Results from previous research have been inconsistent. Some researchers have detected P. multocida in Nebraska wetlands during an epizootic but failed to isolate the bacteria three days after the epizootic ended. Others have recovered P. multocida for up to 30 days from water samples associated with avian carcasses in a California marsh. Still another researchers could not demonstrate P. multocida in soils at an outbreak site either before, during or after a natural epizootic. Regardless of the source of P. multocida that initiates an outbreak, transmission is believed to be through inhalation of aerosols or ingestion of water contaminated with bacteria. Therefore, an understanding of the environmental factors affecting survival of P. multocida in wetlands may provide critical information in controlling avian cholera outbreaks or reducing losses. In addition, the reservoir for P. multocida and the means by which avian cholera is introduced to susceptible birds remain among the important unresolved questions in the epizootiology of this disease. Sample areas throughout the US include those that have avian cholera outbreaks. The major areas are indicated below, however, sampling from some other areas has included Stillwater NWR in Nevada, Humboldt Bay NWR in California, Rainwater Basin of Nebraska, Playa Lakes of Texas, Missouri, Sacramento, CA, and Tule Lake NWR, California. Methodology: Field sampling and laboratory processing methods were developed and refined during 1995 to standardize collection methods and enhance the recovery of P multocida from environmental samples. Equipment and methods for collecting environmental data from wetlands were procured and standardized. Protocols to standardize collection and processing of wetland samples were developed and refined. Several new techniques for collecting and processing wetland water and soil to isolate P. multocida were evaluated. Experimental evaluations of these methods indicate that P. multocida concentrations between 2.2 and 22 organisms ml can be successfully detected in wetland water samples.. KEYWORD: biological classification, geese, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, nebraska, texas, animalia, aves, brd, north america, california, human dimensions, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, toxicity levels, ecotoxicology, permanent wetlands, p_multocida, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, central valley, california, animals, vertebrates, surface water, waterfowl, water depth, nwhc, rice belt, texas, dissolved gases, geographic region, usgs, wildfowl, usa, usgs, contaminants, continent, turbidity, chordata, birds, wetlands, united states of america, bacteria, archaea, klamath basin, california, water quality, water chemistry, environmental conditions, seasonal wetlands, polar, semi-permanent wetlands, epizootic, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, ducks, rainwater basin, nebraska, pasteurella multocida, wildlife disease, avian cholera, 
TITLE: Western Arctic Shelf Basin Interactions (SBI) Project Data at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: The Western Arctic Shelf Basin Interactions (SBI) project is a multi-year, interdisciplinary program to investigate the impact of global change on physical, biological and geochemical processes over the Chukcki and Beaufort Sea shelf basin region in the Western Arctic Ocean. This dataset consists of compiled benthic biomass from the northern Bering, Chukchi, East Siberian and Beaufort seas for input into ArcView, a Geographical Information System. The data is in Microsoft Access 2000 format.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, usa, noaa, biomass dynamics, gis, northern bering sea, aquatic ecosystems, north pacific ocean, bering sea, polar, east siberian sea, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, biosphere, beaufort sea, western arctic shelf basin interactions, ecosystem functions, benthic habitat, ocean, benthic biomass, sbi, geographic region, chukchi sea, 
TITLE: Slope Ecology and Active Layer in the Central Yamal Peninsula, West Siberia, Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set contains slope ecology parameters from Western Siberia, including morphology, lithology, soil-vegetation cover, depth of thaw, and chemical composition of landslide slopes. The study site comprises a highly-dissected alluvial-lacustrine-marine plain in which a number of hazardous processes operate, such as thermal erosion and landsliding. Active layer detachments were active in August 1989, and this produced 400 new landslides in the area of 10 square km. Field measurements were conducted at each of the landslides, as well as aerial photographs of the larger slides. These data were collected at Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program Network Site ID R5.. KEYWORD: continent, central yamal peninsula, west siberia, russia, active layer, soil moisture, water content, ggd, arctic, ground water, vegetation, usa, noaa, dendrochronology, russia, vegetation complexes, trial pits, soils, groundwater chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, global geocryological data system, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, biosphere, radiocarbon dating, eastern europe, plant chemistry, soil-water chemistry, landslides, frozen ground, slope processes, drainage, geographic region, plant characteristics, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 20th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is the NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 20th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, visible radiance, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Barrow Alaska Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics: Meteorology and Radiation Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of continuous meteorological data, monthly climatological summaries, and upper air meteorological data for the NOAA CMDL Pt. Barrow Observatory. Data include hourly average observations of air temperature, station pressure, and surface wind direction and speed. The data set also includes atmospheric radiation at the Barrow Observatory. Radiation data consist of hourly-averaged data for downwelling short-wave radiation, in watts per square meter. The radiation data were used to determine the snow disappearance date at Barrow on the basis of objective, radiometric measurements made over open tundra (http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov star snomelt.html). These data are available from the NOAA Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory, http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov info ftpdata.html . Meteorological data are available via FTP at ftp:  140.172.192.211 met  in directories named 'brw' within each major directory, and radiation data are available at ftp:  140.172.192.211 radiation brw .. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, snow melt, shortwave radiation, ggd, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, united states of america, north america, alaska, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, surface winds, global geocryological data system, polar, surface pressure, barrow, alaska, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, solar radiation, pressure, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, thermal radiation, 
TITLE: Weather Data of the 16th Voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research in 1999 2000. ABSTRACT: During the 16th voyage of Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition,we use automatic station to get the weather information, including pressure, cloud, temperature, humidity and precipitation. Every one hour the program wrote the weather data to hard disk. Note: heading; ship's speed, pressure, wind velocity, wind direction, wave height, air temperature, dew-point temperature, relative humidity. The missing data are indicated as ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, atmospheric temperature, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, salinometers, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, precipitation, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, thermometers, amd, global ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Canadian Wildland Fire Information System - Fire Behaviour Prediction. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Wildland Fire Information System, Fire Behavior Prediction system, provides quantitative estimates of head fire spread rate, fuel consumption, fire intensity and fire description.The Fire Behavior Prediction system gives estimates of fire area, perimeter, perimeter growth rate, and flank and back fire behavior. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, fire dynamics, vegetation, air temperature, nunavut, northwest territories, forest composition, vegetation structure, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, humidity, yukon territory, fire ecology, polar, atmospheric phenomena, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, biosphere, quebec, alberta, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, canada, drought, water vapor, prince edward island, new brunswick, litter characteristics, deciduous vegetation, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped 9 KM Yearly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Cloud-Radiation Feedback: Boundary Layer Cloud Microphysical Properties and Processes. ABSTRACT: This data set includes Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic (SHEBA) cloud microphysical data collected onboard the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) C-130 aircraft. This work focused on improving the quality of algorithms used to process in situ measurements collected during First International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project (ISCCP) Regional Experiment, Arctic Cloud Experiment (SHEBA FIRE, ACE) and applying the results to the analysis of five case studies. Such research was deemed valuable as a result of weaknesses and inconsistencies in the existing C-130 data set that were pointed out in a SHEBA workshop held in 2000. Data has been reprocessed by SPEC, Inc. to improve quality and add value to the measurements. Investigators selected five research days that were considered to be high priority by the SHEBA science team: 4 May, 8 July, 18 July, 28 July, and 29 July of 1998. New software algorithms and procedures were developed to objectively combine the measurements from the NCAR C-130 forward-scattering spectrometer probe (FSSP), Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO)-King probe, 260X probe, 2D-C probe, and 2D-P probe which were made by Particle Measuring Systems, Inc. (PMS) along with a Cloud Particle Imager (CPI) made by SPEC, Inc. Prior to this work, 2D-probe data had not been analyzed quantitatively; the 260X probe data were used instead. It was found that using the 260X data resulted in severe underestimation of ice water content (IWC), radar reflectivity and effective particle size in most mixed-phase regions of cloud. The software developed for this research performed several functions. CPI data were separated into water drops and ice crystals in mixed-phase clouds. Ice crystals were classified according to crystal type. An improved algorithm was developed to calculate IWC based on digitization and re-analysis of ice crystal and melted-drop images. The new algorithms were applied to the calculation of IWC, extinction coefficient, radar reflectivity, and ice particle effective size.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, particle measuring systems 2d-p probe, arctic ocean, aerosol particle properties, pms 2d-c probe, particulates, aerosols, arctic, national snow and ice data center, clouds, usa, noaa, arctic system science, cloud liquid water, fssp, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, cpi, cloud particle imager, forword scattering spectrometer probe, air quality, polar, arcss, oaii, sheba, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, aircraft, earth science, ceos, arcss140, sheba, beaufort sea, opp-0084314, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, 2dc, ocean, 2d cloud probe, ice scattering, geographic region, particle measuring systems 2d-c probe, pms 2d-p probe, arcss data coordination center, fire, ace, arcss, 
TITLE: Snow Pit and Ice Core Data from Southern Greenland, 1984. ABSTRACT: This collection includes surface snow sample, snow pit, and ice core data from summer of 1984 in Greenland (location - 65 degrees 6 minutes north, 44 degrees 52 minutes west, 2625 m a.s.l.). The data describe concentrations of major ions (Cl, Ca, Mg, K, Na, NO3, SO4), iron +3 (Fe) and oxygen isotopes (18O). Samples were obtained by the Glacier Research Group (GRG) and analyzed at a lab at the University of New Hampshire (UNH).. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, opp8619158, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, greenland, usa, nsf, arcss027, north america, isotopes, ions, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, snow pit, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, snow samples, usa, nasa, adcc, opp-8619158, national science foundation, ion chemistry, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, nsf, opp, snow depth, 
TITLE: Shallow Borehole Temperatures, Ilulissat, Greenland. ABSTRACT: This data set contains borehole temperatures from Ilulissat, west Greenland (69deg;N, 51deg;N, 44 m asl), recorded from 21 thermistors at depths of 0.25 m, 0.5 m, 0.75 m, 1 m, 1.25 m, 1.5 m, 1.75 m, 2 m, 2.5 m, 3 m, 3.5 m, 4 m, 4.5 m, 5 m, 6 m, 7 m, 8 m, 9 m, 11 m, 13 m, and 15 m below the surface. Snow depth, snow extent, and surface air temperature were also recorded. Thermometers recorded temperatures once a day from 06 November 1968 to 15 June 1982; however, this data set only contains bi-weekly averages. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, seasonal freeze, thaw, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, greenland, boreholes, thermal properties, north america, soil temperature, soils, land records, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, permafrost temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, land surface, sisimiut, holsteinsborg, greenland, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: SCICEX Dissolved Barium Data, 1993-1997. ABSTRACT: Dissolved barium data were compiled from water samples collected between 26 August 1993 and 2 October 1997 from nuclear submarines in the interior basins of the Arctic Ocean. Water samples were collected by three nuclear submarines: the USS Pargo in 1993, the USS Cavalla in 1995, the USS Pogy in 1996, and the USS Archerfish in 1997. The samples were collected into high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles and analyzed in the laboratory. For detailed information about each SCICEX cruise and science mission, refer to the documentation that accompanies the data files.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, arcss, scicex, arctic, nuclear submarines, usa, noaa, arctic system science, uss cavalla, uss archerfish, scientific ice expeditions, niskin casts, onrn000149310318, isotope-dilution, ocean chemistry, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, opp9424334, opp9707459, dissolved barium, uss pargo, submarine intake, scicex-97, oceans, scicex-95, scicex-96, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, arctic system science, scientific ice expeditions, niskin bottles, arcss070, opp-9622603, canada basin, opp-9424334, usa, nsf, trace elements, submarine, uss pogy, opp-9707459, onr n00014-93-10318, eurasian basin, ocean tracers, opp9622603, polar, makarov basin, earth science, ceos, adcc, water bottles, national science foundation, scicex, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Daily Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Millennial Scale Fluctuations of Dry Valleys Lakes: Implications for Regional Climate Variability and the Interhemispheric (a)Synchrony of Climate Change. ABSTRACT: This Collaborative Research award supports a project headed by Dr. B. Hall to add to the understanding of what drives glacial cycles near the McMurdo Dry Valleys. Her project aimed to integrate the geomorphological record of glacial history with a series of cores taken from the lake bottoms in the Dry Valleys of the McMurdo Sound region of Antarctica. The chronology, necessary to integrate the cores with the geomorphological record, as well as for comparisons with Antarctic ice-core and glacial records, would come from Uranium-Thorium, Uranium-Helium, and Carbon-14 dating of carbonates, as well as luminescence sediment dating. This Collaborative award enabled application and tests of a range of luminescence sediment-dating procedures to siliclastic silt and sand fractions from lake cores (Fryxell in Taylor Valley and Vanda in Wright Valley), lake-shore deposits (active deltas), and ice-surface sediment (Vanda and Fryxell). A Supplement to this award enabled similar efforts to be applied to ice-surface and short-core deposits from Lake Hoare (also in Taylor Valley), as well as to paleo-deltas at Lake Fryxell. The luminescence procedures employed included: multi-aliquot, polymineral fine-silt (IR-stimulation for feldspar signals), single-aliquot, multi-grain sand-size quartz (blue diode stimulation), and single-grain quartz (green laser stimulation). The data set for the Collaborative award will thus include a variety of luminescence age estimates, some compared to independent age estimates (either from C-14 on carbonacious matter or known modern settings [thus of 'zero age']). The purpose of this data set from the Supplement award was to determine which of these procedures and which of the sediment fractions (each often representing a different depositional process, ergo a different daylight-exposure history, daylight exposure being the 'clock-zeroing' mechanism) would provide the most accurate age estimates for the burial time of the sediment. The purpose of the main Collaborative award data set was to exploit the results from the Supplement experiments to obtain accurate ages of sediment burial for selected horizons within the cores. Unfortunately, several of the cores (e.g., those from Lake Vanda, most from Lake Fryxell) were disturbed during shipment from Antarctic to Reno, thus limiting the number of core samples available for dating analyses.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, sediment corers, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, paleo start date 200 ka, climate variability, paleoclimate, stratigraphy, age determinations, lasers, boreholes, usa, nsf, ocean, lake records, quaternary, lake level reconstruction, land records, shoreline deposits, polar, amd, us, paleoclimate reconstructions, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation, phanerozoic, antarctica, dry valleys, glaciers, ice sheets, luminescence geochronology, grain size, ocean, laboratory, lake levels, rocks, minerals, amd, ice core records, paleo stop date 0 ka, geographic region, lake cores, antarctic lake-level, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Synthetic Aperture Radar Data held at the Alaska Satellite Facility. ABSTRACT: The data set consists of all ERS-1 SAR data acquired by the Alaska Satellite Facility (ASF) operated by the Geophysical Institute of the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. Only data within the station mask of ASF, approximated by a 3000 km radius circle centered on Fairbanks, is acquired. Available products include: Full-res images are 4-look SAR images with 30 m resolution and 12.5 m pixel spacing over a 100 km x 100 km area. These are 8192 pixel x 8192 pixel x 8 bit (64MB) images. The data is corrected to the GEM06 geoid model. Lo-res images are produced by 8 x 8 averaging the full-res data. The resulting image is 1024 pixels x 1024 pixels x 8 bits (1 MB). Complex images, created on request, are 1-look data with approximately 10 m resolution covering an area of 30km x 50 km. Data is formatted as 12,888 pixel x 2048 pixel x 32 bit complex integers (16I, 16Q-about 100MB). The data contains backscatter amplitude and phase useful for interferometry studies of topography and feature motion. Approval by NASA or ESA is required to obtain the data. Please contact ASF user services to become a NASA approved investigator.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, geomorphology, soil moisture, water content, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, echo, lake ice, ice types, north america, sea ice, spectral, engineering, land cover, topography, pack ice, land use, land cover, biosphere, radar imagery, glaciers, ice sheets, landforms, synthetic aperture radar, permafrost, earth observing system data information system, ocean, asf daac, leads, global change, frozen ground, oceans, sar data, geographic region, glaciers, continent, icebergs, sar daac, radar backscatter, vegetation, eosdis, ers-1, agriculture, earth science information partners program, ice edges, soils, snow, ice, ocean waves, sea ice age, polar, ocean winds, ice floes, sar, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, idn_node gsfc, asf, usa, nasa, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, daac, radar, coastal processes, ice sheets, polynyas, esip, 
TITLE: Alaskan Fossil Identification File. ABSTRACT: The data base consists of a compilation of reports made by the U.S. Geological Survey Branch of Paleontology and Stratigraphy concerning the identification of fossils collected in Alaska. Data includes fossil type and age, sample locality, collector, author, and date of report. Reports are grouped together by year, but are not indexed. Written requests or appointment only. Permission for access by non-U.S. Geological Survey employees must be obtained in writing from the U.S. Geological Survey Branch of Paleontology and Stratigraphy. Data consists of 65 notebooks.. KEYWORD: microfossils, solid earth, sedimentology, continent, arctic, fossils, paleoclimate, stratigraphy, age determinations, united states of america, paleontology, north america, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, alaska, land records, geochronology, erosion, sedimentation, macrofossils, earth science, ceos, land surface, sedimentary rocks, rocks, minerals, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Canadian Offshore Geotechnical Data. ABSTRACT: Sediment core physical properties descriptions (down core) taken from samples collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic). The data set contains basic (geotechnical) physical properties of marine sediment core samples including water content, bulk density, plasticity, and shear strength. Samples were analyzed on longitudinal split cores using acoustic test techniques.This data is useful for providing information on physical properties of unconsolidated sediments (down core). The maximum length of down core measurements is 37 m. The data can be used for determining geohazards, environmental parameters, benthic habitats, surficial sediment stability, etc. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, geotechnical properties, human dimensions, geological hazards, yukon territory, marine sediments, polar, nova scotia, earth science, unconsolidated sediments, ceos, natural hazards, mackenzie delta, quebec, alberta, marine environment monitoring, environment, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, oceans, canada east coast, geographic region, sediment stability, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment (GLOBE) Data Available on the WWW. ABSTRACT: GLOBE is a worldwide network of students, teachers and scientists working together to study and understand the global environment. Students (K-12) conduct and array of measurements and observations at their schools and share their data via the Internet with other students and scientists around the world. Teachers instruct students on how to take measurements, and help students understand the relevance of their observations. Scientists analyze the data in conjunction with information obtained from other sources (e.g. satellites and models) to help develop a better understanding of Earth systems. Data are available via for download in tabular form (ASCII), as shapefiles, and as rendered maps via a Web Mapping Service (WMS). The data include: Atmosphere - Clouds and Contrails - Aerosols - Water Vapor - Barometric Pressure - Relative Humidity - Precipitation (Rain, Snow, Snowpack, pH) - Max Min Current Air Temperature - Surface Temperature - Surface Ozone Hydrology - Water Transparency - Water Temperature - Dissolved Oxygen - Electrical Conductivity - Salinity - pH - Alkalinity - Nitrate - Freshwater Macroinvertebrates Soil - Soil Characterization - Soil Temperature - Gravimetric Soil Moisture - Bulk Density - Soil Particle Density - Soil Particle Size Distribution - Soil pH - Soil Fertility - Soil Moisture - Infiltration Land Cover Biology - Land Cover - Biometry - Manual Land Cover Mapping - Computerized MultiSpec Land Cover Mapping - Land Cover Change Detection - Fire Fuel Phenology - Budburst - Green-Up - Green-Down - Ruby-throated Hummingbird - Phenological Gardens - Lilac Phenology - Arctic Bird Migration Monitoring - Seaweed Reproductive Phenology More information about GLOBE can be found on the WWW at: "http:  www.globe.gov" GLOBE data access is available online: "http:  viz.globe.gov viz-bin access.cgi" GLOBE data visualizations are available at: "http:  viz.globe.gov viz-bin home.cgi" GLOBE WMS is available at: "http:  viz.globe.gov viz-bin wmt.cgi?" UCAR and Colorado State University manage the GLOBE Program under a cooperative agreement with NASA, with support from the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of State.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, land cover classification, precipitation, fire fuel, atmospheric pressure measurements, forest fire science, humidity, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, air quality, nitrogen compounds, soil horizons, profile, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, soil fertility, biosphere, alkalinity, atmospheric water vapor, soil porosity, globe, land temperature, anderson classification, cloud cover, oceans, gosic, land use classes, anderson land cover, turbidity, soil particle size distribution, contrails, canopy characteristics, global, air temperature, daily maximum air temperature, tropospheric ozone, soil particle density, diameter of trunk, stem, soils, height of dominant vegetation, polar, cryosphere, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, esip, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, soil structure, vegetation species, daily minimum air temperature, aerosol optical depth, thickness, conductivity, snow cover, soil bulk density, human dimensions, forest science, oxygen, land cover, phosphorus, soil classification, rain, soil infiltration, maximum, minimum temperature, surface water, skin temperature, plant phenology, water vapor, snow, salinity, density, geographic region, snow depth, tree height, potassium, aerosols, vegetation, clouds, light transmission, agriculture, soil consistence, earth science information partners program, water quality, water chemistry, snow, ice, salinity, soil texture, cloud types, nitrogen, phenology, earth science, land surface, soil color, tree trunk diameter, usa, nasa, liquid water equivalent, soil ph, ph, dominant species, land cover, land use, plant characteristics, tree species identification, global learning and observations to benefit the environment, soil chemistry, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Geothermal Observations From Canadian Boreholes, Mines and Hydrocarbon Wells. ABSTRACT: Geothermal data containing measurements of temperature, conductivity, heat generation, and rock petrology observation data that have been measured from Canada's landmass have been compiled in the Canadian Geothermal Data compilation. The data have been assembled from several data sets, paper files and even field notebooks, and refer to sites that include shallow boreholes, mines, and hydrocarbon exploration wells. The data are preserved in the form of original observations with no selection or correction of any kind. Supporting detail is included to permit the user to make judgements of quality and of options for selective use. The comprehensive compilation was started by the Geothemal Group of the Earth Physics Branch from 1962-1986, and then maintained and expanded by volunteer scientists determined to save the results of their efforts and make this valuable resource accessible to many future applications. These data have a wide range of use and can be applied to different geotechnical applications such as deep permafrost mapping, frozen ground reaction, gas hydrates, geothermal resource exploration, hydrocarbon charge modeling, rock property studies for nuclear waste disposal, hydrological analysis, and climatic change. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD27 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, franklinian geosyncline, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, williston basin, mackenzie corridor, north america, ontario, geothermal, geothermal temperature, thermal diffusivity, north pacific ocean, queen charlotte basin, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, rock petrology, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, new brunswick, michigan basin, scotian shelf, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, natural resources, north atlantic ocean, western canada sedimentary basin (wcsb), nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, beaufort-mackenzie, saskatchewan, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, heat generation, polar, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, gas hydrates, prince edward island, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, thermal conductivity, 
TITLE: RESURS-O1 data from Eurimage. ABSTRACT: Eurimage is bridging the gap between AVHRR's 1 km resolution and Landsat TM's 30 metres with data obtained from the RESURS-O1-3 satellite from Russia. Launched in November 1994, this third satellite in the RESURS-O1 series carries the MSU-SK multi-spectral scanner with a resolution of 170 metres, producing data that can be used for: mapping environmental monitoring of large areas coastal zone monitoring agricultural monitoring measurement of forest fire damage snow cover assessment ice monitoring In particular, at scales of 1:500,000 to 1:1,000,000, Satellite Image Maps made from RESURS data are the most competitive on the market.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, surface radiative properties, mid-latitude, ecological dynamics, arctic, land surface temperature, thermal properties, snow cover, north america, south america, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, infrared wavelengths, africa, resurs-o1, topography, vegetation cover, natural hazards, australia, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, ocean, land temperature, biomass burning, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, indian ocean, glaciers, continent, thermal inertia, visible imagery, boundary layer, north atlantic ocean, fire dynamics, vegetation, infrared imagery, global, clouds, amd, int, equatorial, multichannel middle resolution conical scanner, wetlands, mediterranean sea, lakes, msu-sk, snow, ice, europe, fire ecology, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, cloud types, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, meteorological hazards, atlantic ocean, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: Cod Growth Data. ABSTRACT: Data from Cod Growth Workshop, May 8-10 2000, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada. The workshop was proposed by the ICES GLOBEC Working Group on Cod and Climate Change. The terms of reference for the workshop were: - To develop models of growth in order to improve the quality of stock forecasting; - To describe major sources of uncertainty in further improving the prediction of growth rate and advise on further studies to reduce the uncertainty; - To assess the contribution of growth rate variability to the observed variability in stock biomass and stock forecasts; and - to recommend standard methods for comparing growth rates. Growth rate varies widely among cod stocks. Large changes in growth rate have also been observed within many cod stocks. This variation in growth rate has important consequences for the productivity of these stocks. Variation in growth rate may reflect effects of temperature change, density dependence (i.e., changes in per capita prey availability due to variation in prey or cod abundance), changes in maturation schedules, changes in size-selective fishing mortality, or genetic variation. An understanding of the causes of variation in growth rate among and within cod stocks may lead to improved forecasts of stock biomass and productivity, and is required to assess the likely impacts of climate change on cod populations. To facilitate the exchange of data and ideas, a Discussion Bulletin Board for the workshop will be maintained at the ICES GLOBEC Internet site ("http:  www.ices.dk globec globec.htm"). This webpage contains information on where to get Cod Growth Data for areas of interest to ICES. This information has been taken from the ICES GLOBEC Cod and Climate Change website "http:  www.ices.dk globec". KEYWORD: international geosphere-biosphere programme, arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ray-finned fishes, usa, nasa, cods, haddocks, animals, vertebrates, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, ocean, fish, north sea, cod, ices, growth, atlantic ocean, geographic region, igbp, baltic sea, globec, 
TITLE: Automatic Weather Station Data From Aktru Valley (Altay Mountains, Russia). ABSTRACT: AWS data from Aktru valley (Altay) for 17.08.2007-21.10.2008. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, automated weather system, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, international polar year, geographic region, aws, europe, 
TITLE: BEDMAP ice-thickness database. ABSTRACT: Data describing the thickness of the Antarctic ice sheet collected on surveys undertaken over the past 50 years have been brought together into a single database. These data have allowed the compilation of a suite of seamless digital topographic models for the Antarctic continent and surrounding ocean. The suite includes grids representing: * ice-sheet thickness over the ice sheet and shelves * water-column thickness beneath the floating ice shelves * bed elevation beneath the grounded ice sheet * bathymetry to 60?S including the areas beneath the ice shelves. These grids are consistent with a recent high-resolution surface elevation model of Antarctica. While the digital models have a nominal spatial resolution of 5 km, such high resolution is not strictly justified by the original data density over all parts of the ice sheet. The suite does however provide an unparalleled vision of the geosphere beneath the ice sheet and a more reliable basis for ice sheet modelling. The bed elevation DEM, which includes the entire geosphere south of 60?S, provides an improved delineation of the boundary of the boundary between East and West Antarctica and sheds new light on the morphology of the contiguous East Antarctic landmass, much of which is buried below an average of 2500 m of ice. The database is available at the following URL: http:  www.antarctica.ac.uk index.php. KEYWORD: continent, polar, bed elevation, bedmap, topography, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, ice thickness, water column thickness, ice depth, thickness, bathymetry, amd, uk, amd, geographic region, snow, ice, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day V003. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 3 day product (MOD29P1D3) contains the following fields: Sea Ice by Reflective Characteristics, Sea Ice by Reflective Pixel Quality Assurance (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, Sea Ice by IST, and Combined Sea Ice. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring. This data set represents Version 3 (V003) of the MODIS processing scheme. The V003 collection contains reprocessed V001 data from 5 March 2001 onward and V003 data from 24 May 2001 onward. V003 data contain processing refinements accommodating algorithm, instrument and calibration stabilization. V003 start dates will continually shift to earlier dates as V001 data are reprocessed to V003. After V003 data are generated for a given day, the V001 data for the same day will still be available for ordering through the EOS Data Gateway (EDG) for at least six months. Eventually, V003 data will completely replace V001 data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: LANDSAT 4 5 TM Raw Products. ABSTRACT: Landsat TM data are available from December 1982 to February 1983 (Landsat 4) and from April 1984 onwards (Landsat 5). Most of the ESA archive has been acquired and processed at receiving stations in Fucino (Italy), Kiruna (Sweden) and Maspalomas (Gran Canaria, Spain). However, the archive contains also a substantial number of data acquired and processed by receiving stations elsewhere (e.g. the US, Brasil, Canada, etc). A Landsat 4 and 5 TM scene has an instantaneous field of view (IFOV) of 30 square meters in bands 1 through 5 and band 7, band 6 has an IFOV of 120 square meters on the ground. The resolution for the TM sensor is shown below: --------------------- Resolution Landsats 4-5: (meters) Band 1: 30 Band 2: 30 Band 3: 30 Band 4: 30 Band 5: 30 Band 6: 120 Band 7: 30 -------------------- Landsat TM Raw data is available in a digital format for: - Full scene: Full scenes cover approximately 183 x 172.8 km. A standard full scene is nominally centred on the intersection between a path and row (the actual image centre can vary by up to 20 km). For a floating full scene the placement along the path is chosen by the customer. The centre point of the floating full scene is defined by the path number and the required latitude. A full image is composed of 6920 pixels x 5760 lines and each band requires 40 Mbytes of storage space. - Quarter scene: ESA TM data (digital or photographic) is available in quadrants, each measuring 91.5 x 86 km. This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. Numbering of standard quarter scenes is as follows: for floating quarter scenes the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the floating quarter scene is defined by latitude and longitude. - Mini scenes: ESA TM data is available as images covering an area 47.2 x 44 km (a 16th of a full scene). This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. The scenes are floating and the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the scene is defined by latitude and longitude. To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, habitat conversion, fragmentation, global terrestrial observing system, desertification, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, deforestation, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, erosion, gosic, geographic region, regional desertification, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landsat-5, reforestation, landsat-4, vegetation, equatorial, wetlands, esa, esrin, thematic mapper, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, erosion, sedimentation, asia, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, regional reforestation, rivers, streams, tm, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Polar Ozone and Aerosol Measurement III (POAM III) Data at NRL. ABSTRACT: The Polar Ozone and Aerosol Measurement III (POAM III) instrument is similar to POAM II, and is designed to extend the POAM II data in time. POAM III is carried by the SPOT-4 spacecraft sponsored by the Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales (CNES), the French Space Agency and was launched in 1998. The POAM III retrieval version 2 includes the following profile data: (1) Ozone concentration, 5-60 km (2) NO2 concentration, 20-40 km (3) Aerosol extinction at 1018 nm, 10-30 km (4) Water Vapor, 5-45 km (5) UKMO temperature, pressure, and potential vorticity, 0-60 km The ancillary profiles of temperature, pressure, and potential vorticity from the UK Meteorological Office (UKMO) have been interpolated to the location and time of the POAM III measurements. The MSISE-90 model has been used to extend these profiles above the top UKMO pressure level. The time span for the data is April 22, 1998 to present. The data are distributed by NRL and can be obtained in several formats, including ascii format, HDF, and IDL save files. Data requests and questions can be made by email to mailto:karl.hoppel@nrl.navy.mil. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, arctic, ukmo, no2, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, polar stratospheric clouds, humidity, potential vorticity, air quality, nitrogen compounds, o3, ozone concentration, ozone depletion, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, systeme probatoire pour l'observation de la terre-4, atmospheric chemistry, spot-4, water vapor, solve, southern hemisphere, amd, geographic region, continent, aerosols, ozone, polar ozone and aerosol measurement iii, solve ii, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, h2o, sage iii ozone loss and validation experiment ii, vorticity, earth science, oxygen compounds, polar mesospheric clouds, sage iii ozone loss and validation experiment, ceos, usa, nasa, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, nitrogen oxides, ozone hole, poam iii, water vapor profiles, 
TITLE: Data of body length, sexual period and eye diameter of Antartic krill measured by 7th CHINARE in 1990-1991. ABSTRACT: The body length, body weight,maturity stage,stomach fullness and eye diameter of krill from the 14 antarctic sites.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, krill, geographic region, 
TITLE: U.S. Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Network. ABSTRACT: The Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) Network is a collaborative effort involving more than 1100 scientists and students investigating ecological processes over long temporal and broad spatial scales. The LTER Network promotes synthesis and comparative research across sites and ecosystems and among other related national and international research programs. The National Science Foundation (NSF) established the LTER program in 1980 to support research on long-term ecological phenomena in the United States. The 24 LTER Sites represent diverse ecosystems and research emphases: LTER Network Office (NET) H.J. Andrews Experimental Forest Arctic Tundra Baltimore Ecosystem Study Bonanza Creek Experimental Forest Cedar Creek Natural History Area Central Arizona-Phoenix Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory Florida Coastal Everglades Georgia Coastal Ecosystems Harvard Forest Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest Jornada Basin Experimental Range W.K. Kellogg Biological Station Konza Prairie Luquillo Experimental Forest McMurdo Dry Valleys (Antarctica) North Temperate Lakes Niwot Ridge Green Lakes Valley Palmer Station (Antarctica) Plum Island Ecosystem Santa Barbara Coastal Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge Shortgrasse Steppe Virginia Coast Reserve Each site contains data sets and information.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, land management, precipitation amount, biological classification, atmospheric temperature, alpine, tundra, shrubland, scrub, ecological dynamics, lter, arctic, vegetation species, landscape ecology, environmental health, human health, precipitation, north america, alaska, massachusetts, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, land and freshwater resources, caribbean sea, land cover, new hampshire, north carolina, land productivity, montane habitats, land use, land cover, land tenure, remote sensing, reclamation, revegetation, restoration, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, antarctica, puerto rico, ecosystem functions, deserts, ocean, minnesota, global change, landscape management, amd, oregon, geographic region, virginia, washington, land use classes, comparative ecosystem analysis, continent, reforestation, environmental change, sociology, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, air temperature, database management systems, forest composition, vegetation structure, beaches, biomass dynamics, wetlands, usa, nsf, ecology, grasslands, long-term ecological research, united states of america, plants, life sciences, public health, global climatic change, polar, wisconsin, amd, us, biomass, agricultural lands, michigan, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, landscape patterns, usa, nasa, land resources, forests, environmental science, colorado, land characteristics, social sciences, ecosystems, atlantic ocean, urban lands, new mexico, landscape, 
TITLE: Preliminary studies on diversity of soil microfungi from Ny-lesund, Svalbard. ABSTRACT: Preliminary results of microfungi isolated from soils of Ny-lesund, Svalbard, Norway during the familiarisation trip in July 2006 will be presented. Twenty three soil samples were collected during from Ny-lesund, Svalbard, Norway in July 2006. Nineteen samples were collected around Ny-lesund while another four were from sea sediment. Soil samples were plated using modification of Warcups soil plating method. Approximately 1 gram of soils was placed in Petri dish and cooled autoclaved potato dextrose agar (PDA) was poured on the Petri dish containing the soil. The Petri dishes were shook horizontally to distribute the soils evenly. Soil plates were incubated at 4 C and 25C (room temperature). In total, 89 fungal species including three yeasts were isolated from soil of Svalbard, Norway. Sixty one species were isolated from plates incubated in 25C and 44 species were isolated from 4C. Sixteen species occurred in both 25 and 4C. High number of fungal species recorded in 25C than 4C, while about 18 percent of total isolated fungi live in both 4C and 25C. Runnel sediment (05 Runnel) gives the highest number of fungal occurrence followed by sample 34 Old Mine Mound and sample 15 Glacial Sediment. Sample 05 Runnel showed the highest number of occurrence with 33 fungal species occurred in total. Twelve species occurred at 4C and 22 species occurred at 25C. Sp. 6 occurred at both temperatures. Twenty five fungal species occurred from sample 34 Old Mine Mound where eight species were isolated at 4C and 18 species were isolated at 25C. Sp. 8 and Sp. 18 were isolated from both 4 and 25C. Twenty one fungal species occurred from sample 15 Glacial Sediment, 13 species were isolated from plates incubated at 4C and nine species at 25C only one species that is Sp.47 was isolated from both 4C and 25C. The most frequent occurred species in this study are Sp. 1 and Sp. 3 with 15.76 and 14.67 percent of total occurrence. Sp. 1 was isolated from 15 sites with 29 occurrence recorded while Sp. 3 was isolated from 12 sites and 27 occurrence recorded. Sp. 2, 6, 9 and 10 were isolated more frequent than the rest of the fungal species. No fungal species was isolated from sample 10 Twin Lake  (foam) and 30 AWS 20m deep sea sediment drilling 6-8cm. Out of 89 isolated fungal species only 28 species are psychrophilic. Sixteen species are psychrotrophic fungi and 45 species are mesophilic. Low number of psychrophilic fungi was recorded compared to mesophilic fungi.. KEYWORD: polar, continent, biological classification, arctic, earth science, ceos, northern europe, scandinavia, fungi, amd, my, norway, amd, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Sea Ice, Oceanic Water, and Sediments, Arctic Ocean and Beaufort Sea. ABSTRACT: This study analyzed sea water, sea-ice, and bottom sediments to depths of 90 m in the Arctic Ocean and Beaufort Sea. Measurements were taken between 1990 and 1995. This data set is at risk of being lost.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, ocean water chemistry measurements, ggd, arctic, ocean water temperature measurements, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, oceanographic data, freshwater ice, beaufort sea,, sea ice, marine sediments, sediment composition, global geocryological data system, polar, ocean chemistry, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, geophysics, beaufort sea, ships, ocean, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Historical Water Surface Temperature Data HSSTD. ABSTRACT: Hydrometeorological data on the conditions of the environment are held by the Russian State Fund of data. This dataset was created by German Marine Weather Service in 1989. The data is currently stored in 2 magnetic tapes (1600 6250 bit inch).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, sea level pressure, arctic, earth science, wind chill, ocean temperature, clouds, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, earth science information partners program, cloud amount, frequency, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, esip, geographic region, cloud form and amount, dew point temperature, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Conservation of Arctic Flora & Fauna (CAFF). ABSTRACT: When the Ministers of the Arctic countries adapted the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy (AEPS) in 1991, they signalled out habitat conservation as an area for special attention. Consequently when the International Working Group for the Conservation of Arctic Flora and Fauna (CAFF) met at its inaugural meeting in 1992, it included Arctic habitat conservation as a priority in its Work Plan. Norway, on behalf of the eight Arctic countries, accepted the task of examining the current status of habitat protection within the Arctic countries as the first phase of CAFF's long-term strategy on habitat. This datasets holds data concerning existing protected areas in the Arctic. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 3 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Finland Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Finland. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 4 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Greenland Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: Gaia Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Greenland. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 5 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Iceland Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Iceland. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 6 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Norway Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: Gaia Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Norway. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 7 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Russia Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: Gaia Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Russia. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 8 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Sweden Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Sweden. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 9 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in the USA Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in the USA. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 10 Vector Name: ArcInfo polygon coverage of proposed protected areas for Canada in lambert azimu Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage of proposed protected areas for Canada in a lambert azimuthal projection. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 11 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas for Canada in lambert azimuth Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimthual Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: points Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas for Canada in a lambert azimuthal projection. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 12 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas, Iceland in lambert azimuth Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas for Iceland in a lambert azimuthal projection. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 13 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas, Russia in lambert azimuth Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas for Russia in a lambert azimuthal projection. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 14 Vector Name: ArcInfo polygon cov of proposed protected areas, Canada, US and Nordic countries Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage of proposed protected areas for Canada, the US and Nordic countries in a lambert azimuthal projection. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 15 Vector Name: ArcInfo point cov of proposed protected areas for all participating countries Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of proposed protected areas for all participating countries in a lambert azimuthal projection. Created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 16 Raster Name: The Arctic region Raster Resolution: 0 Number of Rows: 0 Number of Columns: 0 Number of Bits: 0 Raster Summary: The Arctic region. EPS and GRA files present. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: ArcInfo polygon coverage of existing protected areas in Canada Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage of existing protected areas in Canada. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 2 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Canada Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: points Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of existing protected areas in Canada. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 36 Vector Name: Phytogeographical boundary Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing the phytogeographical boundary of the Arctic. This was created by digitising the 'Phytogeographic zonation of the Arctic' from the following presentation: Yurtsev, B.A. 1994. Latitudinal (zonal) and longitudinal (sectoral) phytogeographic division of the circumpolar Arctic (in relation to the structure of the vegetation map legend). Talk given at the Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Mapping Workshop, Komarov Botanical Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia, March 21-25, 1994.To be updated. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 37 Vector Name: Floristic boundary Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing the floristic boundary of the Arctic. This was created by digitising the 'Floristic subdivisions of the Arctic proper' figures from the following presentation: Yurtsev, B.A. 1994. Latitudinal (zonal) and longitudinal (sectoral) phytogeographic division of the circumpolar Arctic (in relation to the structure of the vegetation map legend). Talk given at the Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Mapping Workshop, Komarov Botanical Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia, March 21-25, 1994.To be updated. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 38 Vector Name: Oceanic floristic boundary Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing the oceanic floristic boundary of the Arctic. This was created by digitising the 'Floristic subdivisions of the Arctic proper' figures from the following presentation: Yurtsev, B.A. 1994. Latitudinal (zonal) and longitudinal (sectoral) phytogeographic division of the circumpolar Arctic (in relation to the structure of the vegetation map legend). Talk given at the Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Mapping Workshop, Komarov Botanical Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia, March 21-25, 1994.To be updated. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 17 Raster Name: Existing and Proposed Protected Areas in the Arctic Raster Summary: Existing and Proposed Protected Areas in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 18 Raster Name: Protection Levels in the Arctic Raster Summary: Protection Levels in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 19 Raster Name: Physical-Geographical Regions Classifications Raster Summary: Physical-Geographical Regions Classifications in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 20 Raster Name: Vegetation Greeness in the Arctic Raster Summary: Vegetation Greeness in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 21 Raster Name: Protected Areas in the eastern hemisphere Raster Summary: Protected Areas in the eastern hemisphere. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 22 Raster Name: Protected Areas in the western hemisphere Raster Summary: Protected Areas in the western hemisphere. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 23 Raster Name: Protected Areas in Northern Scandinavia and the Kola Peninsula Raster Summary: Protected Areas in Northern Scandinavia and the Kola Peninsula. EPS and AI files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 24 Raster Name: Protected Areas in the Arctic Raster Summary: Protected Areas in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 25 Raster Name: Ramsar Sites, Biosphere Reserves and World Heritage Sites Raster Summary: Ramsar Sites, Biosphere Reserves and World Heritage Sites in the Arctic. EPS, AI and GRA files present. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 26 Raster Name: CAFF table (Access) Raster Summary: Microsoft Access table holding all relevant information to the CAFF project for each member country. Attached Raster(s): Member_ID: 27 Raster Name: CAFF table Raster Summary: INFO file holding all relevant information to the CAFF project for each member country. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 28 Vector Name: Biosphere reserves Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing Biosphere reserves in the Arctic. This coverage was created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 29 Vector Name: Ramsar sites (polygons) Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage showing Ramsar sites (bird reserves) in the Arctic. This coverage was created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 30 Vector Name: World Heritage sites Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing World Heritage sites in the Arctic. This coverage was created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 31 Vector Name: Ramsar sites (points) Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: points Vector Summary: ArcInfo points coverage showing Ramsar sites (bird reserves) in the Arctic. This coverage was created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the 1994 CAFF report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 32 Vector Name: The Arctic circle Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the Arctic circle. This was created for the CAFF 1993 report and used in the CAFF 1994 report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 33 Vector Name: Arctic limit Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the Arctic limits as defined by the member countries in the CAFF report. This was created for the CAFF 1993 report and updated for use in the CAFF 1994 report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 34 Vector Name: July 10 degrees isotherm Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage of the July 10 degrees isotherm. This was created using EPA's rasterized average monthly temperature values for use in the CAFF 1994 report. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 35 Vector Name: Permafrost limits Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: lambert azimuthal Projection_desc: long 0 0 0 lat 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: polys arcs Vector Summary: ArcInfo coverage showing maximum and minimum permafrost limits. This was created for the 1993 CAFF report and used in the CAFF 1994 report.. KEYWORD: resource management, arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, oceans and seas, conservation, unep, grid, nature conservation, ocean, un, human dimensions, geographic region, 
TITLE: Decomposition, nitrogen mobilization, nitrogen fixation and the importance of lakeside foams in fellfield soils of the Garwood Valley. ABSTRACT: Nitrogen, a necessary nutrient for plants and microbes, is frequently limiting in soils. Nitrogen fixation and decomposition, both ways plants and microbes obtain nitrogen, are very slow processes in Antarctica and probably not ecologically important. However, little work has been reported on this subject in Antarctica, and therefore this study's aim was to determine the extent of and factors and processes involved in fixation and decomposition of wet fellfield soil in the upper Garwood Valley. The biomass of algae (live and dead tissue) was determined in the fellfield soils between the Joyce and Garwood Glacier snouts. The metabolic weight loss of these tissues was experimentally determined and bacteria were isolated from the samples. The mobilization of nitrogen from an organic to an inorganic form and nitrogen fixation rates were studied. The ecological importance of foams which occur extensively on the lakesides and flushed soil surfaces was also investigated by culturing the microbes contained within.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, nitrogen, earth science, ceos, garwood valley, land surface, field surveys, antarctica, field investigation, hand samples, bacteria, archaea, laboratory, amd, nz, amd, visual observations, geographic region, soils, 
TITLE: Canadian National Seismograph Network - Hourly Plots Archive. ABSTRACT: The Geological Survey of Canada (GSC) operates nearly 100 seismographs across Canada to detect and locate earthquakes. Together, these instruments make up the Canadian National Seismograph Network (CNSN). Through CNSN's direct communications links (often delivered via satellite) with every seismograph station, including those in the Arctic, immediate and automated data analysis can be realized. The online CNSN hourly plots archive provides not only access to the latest hourly seismographic plots but also plots covering the recent past.To provide access to the hourly plots of the data recorded by the Canadian National Seismograph Network. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, national earthquake hazard program, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, seismology, arctic, british columbia, earthquake occurrences, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, canadian earthquakes, saskatchewan, seismic surface waves, earthquake dynamics, seismic body waves, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geophysical data, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, lter, humidity, soil temperature, taylor valley, brn, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, brv, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, continent, shortwave radiation, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, wind shear, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, bulk richardson numbers, lake fryxell, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, radiation, bulk richardson values, mcmurdo dry valleys, vertical wind motion, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes relative humidity data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, atmospheric water vapor, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, humidity, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Thaw Depth and Vegetation Radiance Measurements, Happy Valley, AK, 1994. ABSTRACT: This data set contains measurements for permafrost active layer thaw depth and vegetation reflectance (red and near-infrared bandwidths) at the Happy Valley Flux Study Site in northern Alaska during the summer of 1994. Sampling was conducted in a 1000-m square grid pattern, with sample points spaced 100 m apart. Median values for thaw depths were determined from five replicate measurements using a thaw probe. Vegetation radiance values are averages of five measurements collected from an area approximately 5 square meters at each grid point. Radiometric measurements were collected with Exotech-100BX, 4-channel radiometers fit with spectral filters corresponding to the SPOT HRV-XS satellite bandwidths.. KEYWORD: opp9216109, nsidc, alpine, tundra, arctic, visible radiance, usa, noaa, arctic system science, north america, carbon, alaska, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, happy valley, ground-based observations, vegetation index, infrared wavelengths, arctic system science data coordination center, opp9318527, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, co2 flux, opp-9216109, seasonally frozen ground, visible wavelengths, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, spectral vegetation index, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, active layer, vegetation, canopy characteristics, carbon flux, usa, nsf, arcss103, united states of america, probes, soils, opp-9318527, snow, ice, polar, vertical location, reflectance, laii, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, 
TITLE: CRYSYS Snow Research, Canada. ABSTRACT: Main thrusts in CRYSYS snow-related research are: (1) the development and validation of microwave algorithms for snow cover properties (extent, water equivalent, wet dry state) in varying landscapes, and the synergism between active and passive microwave data for snow studies; and (2) reconstruction of historical snow cover from conventional and remotely sensed data to document and better understand long-term variability in snow cover.1. Develop, validate and refine empirical and theoretical algorithms for snow cover properties (extent, water equivalent, wet dry state) in varying landscapes using passive and active microwave data. 2. Integrate multi-sensor data to produce snow cover maps of selected regions of Canada. 3. Provide snow state variables for input to distributed hydrologic and coupled hydrologic-atmospheric models to monitor the snowpack, estimate runoff, and feedback to the atmosphere. 4. Assess the compatibility and applicability of data and products from current operational passive microwave sensors (SSM I) with EOS data (e.g. AMSR, MODIS). 5. Document and understand variability in snow cover and snow cover climate interactions over a range of spatial and temporal scales from merging of in situ and remotely-sensed data. 6. Contribute to the validation of snow cover and snow climate hydrological interactions in models (e.g. global regional climate and atmospheric models). 7. Rescue significant Canadian snow cover data sets e.g. daily snow depth and snow course observations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, snow melt, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, snow cover, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, spectral, engineering, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, microwave, snow density, vertical location, polar, snowpack, nova scotia, earth science, cryosphere, snow energy balance, ceos, land surface, snow, ice temperature, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, microwave imagery, geographic region, snow water equivalent, western hemisphere, snow depth, 
TITLE: Dielectric Properties, Density and Wetness of Surface Snow for SAR- Ground Truth. ABSTRACT: Ground truth data for SAR- images was collected in western Dronning Maud Land during austral summer 2003 2004. Data set includes measurements of dielectric properties, density and wetness of the surface snow from 50 cm deep snow pits and observations of snow pack stratigraphy and surface roughness. Dataset covers a 350 km long traverse form the edge of an ice shelf to a mountain range ~ 300 km from the coast. Snow pits were excavated every 5 km along the transect.. KEYWORD: snow density, continent, polar, ground truth, snow melt, sar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dronning maud land, antarctica, snow forks, amd, fi, dielectric properties snow, snow cover, amd, snow stratigraphy, geographic region, snow, ice, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic and Southern Ocean Sea Ice Concentrations. ABSTRACT: Monthly sea ice concentration for Arctic (1901 to 1995) and Southern oceans (1973 to 1990) were digitized on a standard 1-degree grid (cylindrical projection) to provide a relatively uniform set of sea ice extent for all longitudes, as a basis for hemispheric scale studies of observed sea ice fluctuations (Walsh 1978). The Arctic grid covers the Arctic Ocean and portions of peripheral seas where sea ice occurs during all or part of the year. The Southern Ocean grid extends to approximately 50 degrees south latitude. Potential uses of this data set include statistical analysis of anomalies in different regions, computing regional and hemispheric trends, and modeling the high latitude surface energy budget. Data sources are U.S. Fleet Weather Facility, U.S. Navy National Ice Center (formerly Navy NOAA Joint Ice Center), U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office, Canadian Department of Transport, British Meteorological Office, Danish Meteorological Institute, Norwegian Polar Institute, and Icelandic ice summaries. Data are available via ftp. Software to select and print grids by date is also available.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, sea ice concentration, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea of japan, gulf of alaska, usa, noaa, noaa climate and global change program, earth science information partners program, model input data, sea ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, antarctic, barents sea, north pacific ocean, gridded data, polar, bering sea, amd, us, sea of okhotsk, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, amundsen sea, ocean, global change, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, chukchi sea, ice concentration, cgc, 
TITLE: GIS Data from the Alaska North Slope. ABSTRACT: This data set includes ArcInfo-formatted maps of the Kuparuk River Basin Region of the Alaskan North Slope (at 1:250,000 scale) and five subset study areas: the Upper Kuparuk River Basin Subregion (1:25,000), the Imnavait Creek Landscape (1:6,000), the Toolik Lake Landscape (1:5,000), the Imnavait Creek Grid (1:500), and the Toolik Lake Grid (1:500). Land cover (satellite-derived) and elevation data (USGS DEM-derived) are provided for the Kuparuk River Basin Region. For the five subset areas, an integrated terrain unit mapping (ITUM) approach simultaneously mapped vegetation and other terrain features as interpreted in the field from a common aerial-photograph base. The result is a single ITUM map for each area, including vegetation, geomorphology, glacial geology, and many other features. Various supplemental maps (e.g., hydrologic features and roads) for each of the areas are available for use as overlays.. KEYWORD: solid earth, nsidc, opp9318530, terrain elevation, geomorphology, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, north america, alaska, terrestrial hydrosphere, hydrology, maps, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, vegetation cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, watershed characteristics, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, opp-9214959, opp-9318530, arcss017, rocks, minerals, geographic region, opp9214959, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, minerals, crystals, mineral types, arc, info, vegetation, geology, gis, usa, nsf, united states of america, polar, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, drainage, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Ross Embayment till provenance from sand petrography. ABSTRACT: Sand petrographic data were collected on the 500-2000 micron fraction of LGM-age till from the Ross Embayment. Moraine samples from the Beardmore, Byrd, Darwin Hatherton Glaciers, Mt. Achernar and Allan Hills were obtained from Dr. Gunter Faure (Ohio State) and Dr. James Bockheim (U. of Wisconsin, Madison). Samples of till from beneath the Siple Coast Ice Streams were obtained from Dr. Hermann Engelhardt (Cal Tech). Ross Sea till samples were obtained from the Antarctic Marine Geology Research Facility (FSU). A few grams of unsieved splits of most of the samples, as well as the grain mounts of the sand fraction are housed at the Sediment Analysis Lab at IUPUI. The data generated from this project include percentage data of mineral and lithic fragments, particle size distributions and elemental abundance. Isotopic analyses of the samples were completed by Dr. Lang Farmer (Univ. of Colorado, Boulder).. KEYWORD: continent, till, paleo start date ~35ka, cenozoic, arctic, moraine, paleoclimate, provenance, paleo stop date ~14ka, ocean, lake records, mineral fragments, quaternary, elemental abundances, land records, sand petrography, sediment composition, polar, amd, us, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, phanerozoic, antarctica, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, particle size distributions, glaciers, ice sheets, glaciation, lithic fragments, isotopic analyses, amd, geographic region, ross embayment, sediments, 
TITLE: Nimbus-5 ESMR Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: The Nimbus-5 Electrically Scanning Microwave Radiometer (ESMR) data set consists of gridded brightness temperature (TB) arrays for the Arctic and Antarctic, spanning 1972-1977. The data were gridded to a polar stereographic projection at 25 km resolution and adjusted to partially remove instrument drift and sensitivity shifts. The ESMR instrument senses horizontally polarized radiation at a frequency of 19 GHz. Two sets of TBs are available: one consists of the original daily-averaged data gridded to the polar stereographic projection, and the second consists of TBs adjusted to partially compensate for instrument drift and sensitivity shifts. Daily data that could not be adjusted are missing from this updated data set. Data are in 2-byte integer flat-binary format, and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, usa, noaa, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sea ice, baffin bay, spectral, engineering, electronic scanning microwave radiometer, nimbus-5, microwave, antarctic, radiometers, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, greenland sea, amundsen sea, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, ocean, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, esmr, ice concentration, 
TITLE: Pakitsoq carbon-14 of methane and supporting gas data. ABSTRACT: This data set includes carbon-14 measurements on atmospheric methane obtained from air bubbles in glacial ice at the Pakitsoq outcrop in western Greenland, during two abrupt increases in methane concentration during the last deglaciation (14.7 and 11.6 kyr BP). Supporting measurements of oxygen-18 of O2, nitrogen-15 of N2, methane concentration, and oxygen-18 of ice used to establish the chronology are also included. The data were collected between 2001 and 2005 in a test of the "clathrate hypothesis", that massive releases of methane from marine methane hydrates caused the observed abrupt increases in atmospheric concentration at those two times.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, ice core air bubbles, cenozoic, arctic, paleoclimate, ablation zones, accumulation zones, greenland, wetlands, usa, nsf, earth science information partners program, north america, quaternary, aquatic ecosystems, polar, trace gases, trace species, earth science, cryosphere, paleo start date 15400 ybp, pleistocene, office of polar programs, national science foundation, phanerozoic, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, methane, ice core records, esip, geographic region, paleo stop date 11200 ybp, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Glacier Outlines for the Western Part of the Katun Glacier Range. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for the western part of the Katun range derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, asia, earth science, cryosphere, southcentral asia, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Temperature & Salinity Fields for the Gulf Stream Region & Gulf Stream Features from the Data Assimilation and Model Evaluation Experiment (DAMEE). ABSTRACT: Under the sponsorship of the Navy Ocean Modeling and Prediction (NOMP) Program, the Institute for Naval Oceanographic Research (INO), in cooperation with the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and several universities, executed the Data Assimilation and Model Evaluation Experiment (DAMEE) for the Gulf Stream region. The data products include a time series of 3-D fields of temperature and salinity, 2-D fields of surface dynamic height, 2-D bogus information of the Gulf Stream and rings, and XBT profiles. Data are available for several periods during the years of 1987 and 1988. See: "http:  marine.rutgers.edu mrs research DAMEE damee.main.html". KEYWORD: ocean currents, continent, navy, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean temperature, sea surface, sea surface topography, east coast, united states of america, sst, north america, ring sizes and centers, idn_node gsfc, eesd, lanl, temperature, damee, sea surface temperature, vertical location, salinity, models, surface dynamic height, wind-driven circulation, earth science, usa, nasa, gulf stream, sea surface height, ocean, north atlantic, dod, oceans, salinity, density, gulf stream axis, mixed layer depth, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: SHEBA Ocean Turbulence Mast Data Archive. ABSTRACT: This data set includes a time series of temperature, conductivity, salinity, three-dimensional velocity, pressure, and magnetic heading at multiple levels in the boundary layer under the drifting ice floe. As part of the Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) project, data were collected continuously for the approximately year-long experiment. However, the experiment was divided roughly in half when a severe deformation event occurred in March 1998. After this event, the ocean camp was shifted to a new site farther into the SHEBA floe. In the first half of the experiment (October 1997 through March 1998), there were four turbulence instrument clusters (TIC) that included three mechanical rotor current meters, which sensed the mean flow velocity. These were oriented approximately at 4 m, 8 m, 12 m, and 16 m below the ice-ocean interface in the western Arctic Ocean. For the second half of the experiment (April through September 1998), only two TICs were deployed on the mast. The clusters measured mean quantities, turbulent momentum, and heat fluxes with reasonable approximations to salinity flux.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, acoustic velocity, ocean water conductivity measurements, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean acoustics, ocean temperature, opp-0084269, usa, noaa, arctic system science, ctd probes, conductivity, temperature, depth, velocity measurements, ctd, conductivity, conduction, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, terrestrial hydrosphere, ocean water salinity measurements, ground-based observations, polar, salinity, arcss, oaii, sheba, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, opp-0084275, earth science, ceos, sheba, pressure, arcss142, turbulence, ocean water salinity, surface water, water depth, ocean, ocean heat budget, ocean platforms, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss, 
TITLE: European Diatom Database-Kola Peninsula pH Dataset. ABSTRACT: The European Diatom Database (EDDI) is a web-based information system designed to enhance the application of diatom analysis to problems of surface water acidification, eutrophication and climate change. The Kola diatom-pH training set comprises 24 small oligotrophic lakes located along a vegetation gradient in the central and western parts of the Kola Peninsula, Russia. The surface sediment diatom flora from the KOLA lakes is typical for oligotrophic, diluted arctic and alpine lakes. The diatom assemblages from the KOLA lakes are close floristically to the assemblages from the ALPE lakes (Cameron et al., 1999) and to the assemblages from northern Sweden (Korsman and Birks, 1996). The diatom optima generated by the KOLA model are generally in agreement with the optima derived by other models (e.g. ALPE) although KOLA diatom optima are generally higher compared to the ALPE and SWAP.. KEYWORD: biological classification, trace metals, total phosphorus, lakewater chemical data, arctic, the european diatom database, conductivity, russia, sulphate, microalgae, protists, chloride, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, bacillariophyta, climate change, oligatrophic lakes, surface sediment samples, nitrogen compounds, eutrophication, magnesium, biosphere, alkalinity, surface water, sodium, lakewater ph transfer function, plant, geographic region, sediments, kola peninsula, plantae, continent, potassium, color, silica, surface-sediment diatom assemblages, diatom, total nitrogen, plants, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, europe, total organic carbon, polar, calcium, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, surface water acidification, land surface, usa, nasa, chromista, water depth of diatom sample, eastern europe, diatoms, maximum depth of lake, sediment chemistry, ph, aluminium, iron, 
TITLE: Active Layer Depth and Snow Depth, Kuparuk Basin, 1995. ABSTRACT: Active layer and snow depths were measured on 1-km x 1-km grids within the Kuparuk Basin, Alaska, at various times throughout the summer of 1995. The parameters were measured at 121 surveyed grid nodes spaced at 100 m at the following locations: Atqasuk, Barrow, Betty Pingo, Happy Valley, Imnavait Creek, Toolik Lake, and West Dock.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, active layer, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss033, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, active layer depth, probes, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, polar, bcs9308334, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, frozen ground, bcs-9308334, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for Kokshetau Area, Tien Shan Mountain Range. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for Kokshetau range (Tien Shan) derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Vestfonna snow data for May 2008 (Germany). ABSTRACT: Snow pit data: Data describe physical properties obtained from six snow pits on Nordaustlandet, Svalbard at Kinnvika research station (1), De Geerfonna (1) and Vestfonna (4). Stratigraphy, temperature, density and grain type are reported. Snow depth: Data describe snow depth sounding along two transects on De Geerfonna and the northwestern slope of Vestfonna. Depth to last summer surface is reported.. KEYWORD: snow density, polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, snow, ice temperature, glaciers, ice sheets, ipy, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ocean, snow cover, international polar year, snow stratigraphy, atlantic ocean, geographic region, snow water equivalent, snow, ice, snow depth, 
TITLE: Seismic reflection and refraction survey of Scoresby Sund and adjacent fjords (E Greenland), 1990 1994 (projects ARK-VII 3b, ARK-X 2). ABSTRACT: The aim of the seismic reflection and refraction measurements of the ARK-VII 3b expedition was to: a) map the crustal structure of totally different geological units in a region of close proximity, b) map the sedimentary distribution and the western boundary of the Mesozoic sediment basin of Jameson Land, c) map especially the Quaternary sediments to reconstruct the extension of the Quaternary glaciers and the different glacial phases. Shot interval was 25 m to 50 m for the reflection and 50 m to 75 m for the refraction seismic data. The data are in processing now with emphasis on velocity analysis and multiple suppression for the seismic reflection data. The following instruments were used: 100 and 800 m long streamer (24 channel), 6 and 32 l airgun array, 0.5 litres watergun, 32 l airgun. 6-channel Reftek stations, PCM stations with seismometers and geophone arrays. The geographical coverage is as follows: ARK-VIII 3b: 2440 km of multi-channel reflection seismic and 2440 km of refraction seismic data, and ARK-X 2: 1000 km of multi-channel reflection seismic and 1800 km of refraction seismic data, covering the whole of Scoresby Sund and adjacent fjords. Data are available on request, but with special arrangement. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, idn_node esrin, dlr, seismic traveltimes, germany, dlr, seismology, arctic, ark-vii, 3b, waterguns, greenland, seismic profile, seismic reflection survey, airgun arrays, north america, stratigraphic sequence, ark-x, 2, long streamers, structure of the east greenland continental margin, tectonics, marine sediments, polar, earth science, jameson land, ceos, scoresby sund, geophones, fjords, sediment, crust, bedrock lithology, seismic velocities, coastal processes, ships, ocean, seismometers, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, sediments, seismic refraction survey, 
TITLE: South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity - Fish Collection. ABSTRACT: The South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity (SAIAB) is a National Research Facility of the National Research Foundation (NRF). It was formerly known as the JLB Smith Institute of Ichthyology, the Scientific 'home' of the Coelacanth. Their National Fish Collection is the largest collection of southern African fish anywhere in the world. It is the largest fish collection in Africa and the second largest in the southern hemisphere, and is included in FISHBASE. It currently contains 42582 records of 319 families. This dataset has been updated in August 2009.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, achiridae, trichiuridae, leptobramidae, odontaspididae, torpedinidae, poeciliidae, cottidae, melamphaidae, south africa, odacidae, western pacific ocean, citharidae, obis, diceratiidae, etmopteridae, sparidae, gonostomatidae, oneirodidae, chlorophthalmidae, agonidae, hexagrammidae, moronidae, ariommatidae, bregmacerotidae, exocoetidae, labrisomidae, chaunacidae, atherinidae, aulopidae, ephippidae, nettastomatidae, lethrinidae, animals, vertebrates, serranidae, red sea, omosudidae, cirrhitidae, centrolophidae, scomberesocidae, artedidraconidae, alepocephalidae, ammodytidae, continent, characidae, callionymidae, lobotidae, triakidae, chiasmodontidae, harpagiferidae, pholidae, lotidae, latimeriidae, rhincodontidae, opisthoproctidae, monocentridae, zoarcidae, trachichthyidae, drepanidae, halosauridae, zenionidae, osmeridae, mugilidae, leptochariidae, polynemidae, bothidae, southern ocean, fistulariidae, scyliorhinidae, pacific ocean, moridae, hoplichthyidae, sphyrnidae, clinidae, carangidae, muraenolepididae, cynoglossidae, caracanthidae, ostraciidae, pomacanthidae, scatophagidae, emmelichthyidae, percophidae, belonidae, fish, gasterosteidae, centriscidae, channichthyidae, coryphaenidae, scopelarchidae, uranoscopidae, caristiidae, holocentridae, muraenesocidae, bramidae, macrouridae, paralepididae, gobiidae, gempylidae, gobiesocidae, oplegnathidae, opistognathidae, psettodidae, luvaridae, dinopercidae, colocongridae, myctophidae, chaetodontidae, chimaeridae, arabian sea, aplodactylidae, centracanthidae, phosichthyidae, phycidae, bathydraconidae, mochokidae, dactylopteridae, bovichtidae, ocean, cyprinodontidae, sciaenidae, gulf of mexico, somniosidae, creediidae, pempheridae, moringuidae, siganidae, indian ocean, eastern pacific ocean, notosudidae, triacanthidae, tetragonuridae, cyclopteridae, xiphiidae, platycephalidae, heterenchelyidae, priacanthidae, persian gulf, embiotocidae, kyphosidae, symphysanodontidae, esocidae, soleidae, stegostomatidae, caproidae, aplocheilidae, pomatomidae, kurtidae, rhinochimaeridae, visual observations, scophthalmidae, lepisosteidae, sphyraenidae, bering sea, platytroctidae, census of marine life, pomacentridae, scorpaenidae, centrarchidae, himantolophidae, scombropidae, cyematidae, pataecidae, proscylliidae, lophotidae, grammicolepididae, monacanthidae, cichlidae, caesionidae, alepisauridae, atlantic ocean, pentacerotidae, plesiopidae, hexanchidae, chlopsidae, biological classification, antennariidae, achiropsettidae, monodactylidae, centrophoridae, synodontidae, arctic, rajidae, argentinidae, galaxiidae, ceratiidae, ogcocephalidae, balistidae, latridae, polymixiidae, saccopharyngidae, aquatic ecosystems, molidae, caribbean sea, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, mullidae, polyprionidae, trachinidae, lophiidae, eleotridae, africa, ambassidae, nototheniidae, paralichthyidae, dasyatidae, mobulidae, coml, malacanthidae, aulostomidae, cetomimidae, gonorynchidae, cyprinidae, diodontidae, leiognathidae, biosphere, rondeletiidae, lamnidae, narkidae, carapidae, ships, obis, za, bythitidae, albulidae, nemichthyidae, synaphobranchidae, pegasidae, linophrynidae, parazenidae, cepolidae, melanonidae, alopiidae, myliobatidae, north atlantic ocean, psychrolutidae, amarsipidae, parascorpididae, enoplosidae, nomeidae, xenisthmidae, ophichthidae, ateleopodidae, anoplogasteridae, apogonidae, regalecidae, stomiidae, chironemidae, haemulidae, anomalopidae, tripterygiidae, polar, plotosidae, dalatiidae, pristigasteridae, ariidae, kuhliidae, labridae, champsodontidae, bathymasteridae, hemiramphidae, acanthuridae, neoscopelidae, berycidae, anacanthobatidae, callorhynchidae, clariidae, narcinidae, megalopidae, blenniidae, stichaeidae, merlucciidae, heterodontidae, veliferidae, pseudochromidae, ipnopidae, squatinidae, gadidae, muraenidae, terapontidae, bathysauridae, cyttidae, ginglymostomatidae, myxinidae, batrachoididae, barbourisiidae, pinguipedidae, zanclidae, ostracoberycidae, serrivomeridae, persitediidae, echeneidae, rachycentridae, gerreidae, oreosomatidae, melanocetidae, scombridae, antarctica, congridae, microstomatidae, scaridae, clupeidae, anoplopomatidae, chanidae, tetraodontidae, pleuronectidae, hemigaleidae, epigonidae, chirocentridae, solenostomidae, amd, kraemeriidae, geographic region, acropomatidae, brachionichthyidae, gymnuridae, platyrhinidae, cheilodactylidae, squalidae, zeidae, rhinobatidae, nandidae, notacanthidae, nemipteridae, lutjanidae, dichistiidae, mediterranean sea, syngnathidae, triglidae, congiopodidae, triacanthodidae, derichthyidae, carcharhinidae, lampridae, trichonotidae, samaridae, south china sea, percidae, chaenopsidae, chlamydoselachidae, glaucosomatidae, earth science, anguillidae, ophidiidae, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, branchiostomatidae, giganturidae, callanthiidae, urolophidae, microdesmidae, pristiophoridae, diretmidae, menidae, sillaginidae, sternoptychidae, aploactinidae, trachipteridae, elopidae, stromateidae, engraulidae, southern africa, 
TITLE: MARK-III CTD in Prydz Bay,Antarctic during 18th CHINARE in 2001-2002. ABSTRACT: CTD data were obtained by CHINARE XVIII with MarkIIIC-CTD on Xuelong.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, ocean pressure, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Thickness, Salinity and Stable Isotope Composition of Sea Ice Samples from the Laptev Sea, 1999. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of sea ice measurements including thickness, salinity, and stable isotope composition from the Laptev Sea. The data were obtained during the Transdrift VI expedition to the Laptev Sea in April and May of 1999 as part of a project supported through the National Science Foundation (NSF) Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Program. Sea ice cores were obtained with a 10 cm diameter corer. Ice thickness was measured in centimeters at the site with a tape measure. On-site, 2 cm thick horizontal sections were cut approximately every 10 cm down the core. Salinity of each sample was determined in practical salinity units (psu) using a salinity, conductivity, and temperature meter with an error of less than 0.02 or 1 percent of bulk salinity. Oxygen stable isotope (delta oxygen-18, or delta 18-O) measurementsts were then performed at the Stable Isotope Laboratory (Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada) on a mass spectrometer at a precision of better than 0.4 parts per thousand, (ppt, 10^3). Data are in a comma-separated variable ASCII format, and are available for download via FTP. Data are compiled for each coring location, though stable isotope measurements were not obtained for all samples.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, arctic ocean, arctic, national snow and ice data center, isotope, usa, noaa, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, arctic and antarctic research institute, ice thickness, opp9876843, isotopes, mass spectrometers, sea ice, ground-based observations, polar, salinity, stable isotopes, oxygen-18, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss041, adcc, laptev sea, ice core data, ocean, ice depth, thickness, oceans, ice core, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Subtropical North Atlantic Alkenone Sea Surface Temperature Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: A reconstruction of sea surface temperature based on alkenone unsaturation ratios in sediments of the Bermuda Rise provides a detailed record of subtropical climate from 60,000 to 30,000 years ago. Northern Sargasso Sea temperatures changed repeatedly by 2 to 5C, covarying with high-latitude temperatures that were previously inferred from Greenland ice cores. The largest temperature increases were comparable in magnitude to the full glacial-Holocene warming at the site. Abrupt cold reversals of 3 to 5C, lasting less than 250 years, occurred during the onset of two such events (Greenland interstadials 8 and 12), suggesting that the largest, most rapid warmings were especially unstable.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sst reconstruction, paleo start date 60000 ybp, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, pages, uk'37, alkenones, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, sargasso sea, polar, paleoclimate reconstructions, paleotemperature, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, age models, subtropical north atlantic, ocean, paleo stop date 30000 ybp, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua and SeaWiFS Level 3 9KM Daily Merged Chlorophyll Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of merged satellite measurements of global ocean chlorophyll data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform, and the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWIFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . SeaWiFS processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html . The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level-3 9 km merged chlorophyll products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods once the refined products for each of the contributing missions are processed. Increased coverage over the single mission product is realized through the merging of the two data sets. There is a substantial improvement (> 50%) in coverage at the daily level, decreasing with the increase in the temporal period binned. The MODIS SeaWiFS merged product is generated in essentially two steps. First, the MODIS Level-3 file is reduced in resolution from 4 to 9 km to match the global resolution of the SeaWiFS chlorophyll product. This involves combining the sum and sum squared field values for the (typically) four 4 km bins into the corresponding single 9 km bin. In the second step, the reduced-resolution MODIS file and the corresponding SeaWiFS Level-3 file are combined. Because both input files are at the same 9 km resolution, the summing is performed bin-by-bin. The Standard Mapped Image file that is generated from the merged Level-3 binned file stores scaled 16 bit integer values rather than the usual 8 bit values, giving the user much greater numerical precision. The actual images displayed on the Ocean Color website in PNG format are provided for visual inspection only. Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level 3 Merged Chlorophyll data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov Merged . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Kapp Linne 3. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this borehole was drilled on the strandflat at Kapp Linne. Drilled to 10m, but casing was not able to insert deeper than c. 4m. Stratigraphy: 0-1.2m:organic material, sand and ice 1.2-2m:sand and silt clay. Beach sediment. Partly unfrozen 2-4m:layered sand with gravel and shells (20cm massive) 4-6m:fine sand with shells, drier. 6-8m: As above, wellgraded sand 8-10m: coarse gravel with sand. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, kapp linn, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Landsat 1-5 dataset from Alaska Field Office's Dbase; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains raw unregistered Landsat digital data covering most of Alaska. Data obtained from EROS Data Center in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Data acquired from 1980 and is ongoing. Some Landsat scenes date back to 1972. The data set currently has 585 records with a growth chart at 5-10 records per year. The amount of storage required varies by medium used or full scene or subscene selection; the file structure is sequential. Spatial referencing of data is by 57 x 59 meter grid cell size-MSS data. Data are available on 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi, unlabeled, unblocked, BCD, fixed record length tape. Subsets and custom formats are available. Limited documentation is available. The data is organized in 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. Data is used for false color composites, land cover analysis, geologic analysis, hydrogeologic analysis, land use planning, basis for update of topographic maps, production of image maps.. KEYWORD: land management, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, arctic, aedd, mss, alaska coast, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, ground stations, human dimensions, land cover, infrared wavelengths, topography, land use, land cover, maps, charts, cartography, landforms, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, ocean, landsat-1, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, visible imagery, landsat-3, landsat-2, landcover, landsat-5, landsat-4, infrared imagery, geology, united states of america, land, satellite, thematic mapper, elevation, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, land surface, tm, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Air and Soil Temperatures from Sites in Alaska 1995-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of air and soil temperatures from various sites in Alaska between 1995 and 2001. Data loggers recorded soil temperatures at 1 cm below the ground or snow surface, and air temperatures at 1.6 m above the surface. Temperatures are given in degrees Celcius. Data collection sites around the state include: Toolik Lake, Galbraith, Happy Valley, Prudhoe Bay, Council, Livengood, Yukon River, Barrow, Gold Creek, Kanuti River, Fairbanks, Chandalar, and Graylink Lake. The data consist of 53 space-delimited ASCII text files, and are available via ftp. Each data file contains date, time, and temperature columns, and some files contain additional data. A table in the documentation for this data set lists each data file and its contents. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9321730.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsf, nsidc, continent, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, atlas, arcss, laii, arctic, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, agriculture, usa, nsf, united states of america, soil temperature probe, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, arcss907, ggd907, polar, nsidc daac, surface air temperature, laii, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, frozen soil, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, national science foundation, ocean, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day (MYD29E1D) contains the following fields: sea ice by reflectance and ice surface temperature (IST). Each data granule covers the entire globe with two separate arrays of 4321 x 4321 pixels: one for the Arctic and one for the Antarctic. Data extend from 04 July 2002 to present. Version 4 (V004) is the latest version of MODIS data available from NSIDC. The MODIS sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, sea ice extent, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, polar sea ice, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Northern Minerals Database (NORMIN.DB), Canada. ABSTRACT: A database of mineral showings, including data on location, development stage, main commodities, pertinent geological characteristics, and exploration history. Also includes references, mainly assessment reports, and summaries of the information they contain. Showings and references are cross linked.To assist mineral exploration, land use planning   resource assessment, and geoscientific research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, minerals, gcmd, natural resources, arctic, mineral exploration, metals, nunavut, geology, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, human dimensions, yukon territory, polar, earth science, radioactive elements, ceos, igneous rocks, mining, metamorphic rocks, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, non-metallic minerals, economics, canada, cgdi, canada, economic resources, coal, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Marbled Murrelet Marine Density Surveys in Coastal British Columbia: Digital Dataset. ABSTRACT: This data set contains Marbled Murrelet marine density surveys (number of birds km2) at georeferenced locations along the British Columbia coast. The surveys span a period of 14 years but only include those that were conducted within the Marbled Murrelet breeding period defined as April to August. This includes the immediate pre- and post breeding period also. Because survey techniques by individual researcher may vary, all surveys are standardized to density units calculated using boat height and length surveyed. These surveys are conducted along the coast and do not include pelagic surveys. The purpose of the data set is to create a centralized inventory of Marbled Murrelet at-sea density surveys within British Columbia. This dataset is further used to build a large-scaled GIS Marbled Murrelet distribution model for coastal British Columbia.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, seabird, brachyramphus marmoratus, vancouver island, arctic, birds, sounds, north america, queen charlotte strait, juan de fuca strait, marbled murrelet, strait of georgia, coastal british columbia, british columbia coast, polar, density, earth science, ceos, fjords, animals, vertebrates, johnstone strait, discovery passage, canada, marine taxonomy surveys, survey, geographic region, queen charlotte islands, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Canadian Spatial Reference System (CSRS) Traditional Reference Networks. ABSTRACT: The National Horizontal and Vertical Primary Reference Networks are traditional reference networks maintained by the Geodetic Survey Division (GSD). The Horizontal Primary Reference Network is a two-dimensional framework of interconnected control surveys with monuments spaced 20 km to 100 km apart over the entire Canadian landmass. The Vertical Primary Reference Network is an elevation framework, with bench marks established about every 2 km along major highways and railways across Canada. These networks are comprised of physically marked survey stations for which horizontal coordinates and or vertical elevations are accurately determined. In addition to the primary networks, GSD has established, and is maintaining a network of secondary surveys in Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut.To provide a national framework of horizontal and vertical references, for the production of topographic maps, resource development, land administration, and scientific studies. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, cgvd28, chain traverse, shoran, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surveying, reference systems, longitude, triangulation, mapping, nova scotia, levelling, geodetics, gravity, gps, nad27, ellipsoid, canada, cgdi, canada, geodetic, inertial survey system, new brunswick, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, latitude, nad83csrs, vertical, nunavut, northwest territories, saskatchewan, doppler, yukon territory, elevation, vertical location, polar, earth science, ceos, control, land surface, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, trilateration, prince edward island, geoid, nad83, aerodist, electronic traversing, 
TITLE: Global EASE-Grid 8-day Blended SSM I and MODIS Snow Cover. ABSTRACT: This data set comprises global, 8-day snow-covered area (SCA) and snow water equivalent (SWE) data from 2000 through the most current processing. Global SWE data are derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) and are enhanced with MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day Level 3 Global 0.05 degree Climate Modeling Grid (CMG) data. Global data are gridded to the Northern and Southern 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grids (EASE-Grids). These data are suitable for continental-scale time-series studies of snow cover and snow water equivalent. The data are in netCDF data files and PNG browse image files available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, ease, terra, arctic, ease-grid, special sensor microwave, imager, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, northern hemisphere, earth science information partners program, snow cover, snow, ice, antarctic, modis, gridded data, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, ssm, i, earth observing system data information system, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Inventory and Monitoring Project, Vegetation Protocol, Denali National Park and Preserve. ABSTRACT: Purpose: The vegetation study of the Denali National Park Long Term Inventory and Monitoring project was installed in the Rock Creek drainage during the 1992-1995 growing seasons. The specific objectives are as follows: Monitor composition and structure of major plant communities in the watershed, including monitoring natural change (wildfire, flooding, climatic variation). Monitor growth rate and reproduction of the dominant treeline species, Picea glauca. Collect data compatible with long-term monitoring data sets for (1) similar plant communities and (2) white spruce growth rates and reproduction. Compare data with other sites to amplify monitoring power. Abstract: The location of the zone of transition between boreal forest and tundra, often referred to as treeline, has shifted in the past in response to climate change. Global warming is predicted to have a major effect on this ecotone within several decades, when the boreal forest will expand into areas that are now upland tundra. The vegetation changes at the northern treeline, in turn, are expected to have feedback effects on global climate through changes in carbon budgets and albedo. Accompanying changes in the rate and frequency of natural disturbances, including fire and insect outbreaks, will both cause and be caused by vegetation shifts. The vegetation in Alaska's largest national parks and preserves, including Denali, Wrangell St. Elias, Gates of the Arctic, Katmai, and Noatak, is dominated by a mix of boreal forest and upland tundra. The predicted expansion of the boreal forest into the upland tundra would have major effects on distribution and population size of the plant and animal species. Monitoring vegetation parameters that will predict and document this shift as it occurs will be a useful adjunct to monitoring of other park resources. The vegetation monitoring program of the initial phase of the Denali inventory and monitoring study was designed to focus on parameters of the boreal forest upland tundra ecotone which may help detect a response to global warming against the background of natural variation. This study appeared likely to provide the most useful information from the landscape unit selected for this study, a small watershed which crosses treeline. The treeline species i this watershed, white spruce (Picea glauca) is also the major treeline species in other Alaskan parks and throughout western North America, both currently and historically. The treeline ecotone in this watershed is particularly suitable for monitoring because the density of white spruce trees in upland areas across the elevational gradient is not limited by topography or influenced by major differences in substrate. Supplementary Information: The project protocol is based on, and data-compatible with, the well-established National Science Foundation Long Term Ecological Study at the Bonanza Creek Experimental Forest near Fairbanks, Alaska. Geographic Description: Rock Creek Watershed in Denali National Park and Preserve. Denali National Park and Preserve is located in the central Alaska Range, approximately 210 km southwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. Methodology: Permanent vegetation plots have been established in the following vegetation types: forest, open woodland at the tree, riparian tall shrub, alpine tundra with a variety of forbs and prostrate woody plants, and permafrost.. KEYWORD: continent, denali national park and preserve, ecological dynamics, betula glandulosa, arctic, betula papyrifera, vegetation, photographic documentation, populus tremuloides, salix alaxensis, united states of america, dendrology banding, north america, alaska, vegetation monitoring protocol, picea glauca, picea mariana, long-term monitoring, data management and analysis, rock creek watershed, polar, biomass, white spruce cone count, phenology, earth science, ceos, ak, denali park, ak, biosphere, ecosystem functions, berry crop measurements, primary production, plant phenology, white spruce growth and reproduction, white spruce seed traps, vegetation mapping, geographic region, alnus crispa, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Temperature data of sea ice-upper water column at the center site of Nella Fjord, 1997, CHINARE-13. ABSTRACT: Ice-water interface temperature data were collected in the center site (with water depth of 147.5 m) of Nella Fjord near Zhongshan Station from March to November, 1997. The data were obtained by using of 15 sets thermo-sensitive sensors with interval of 15 cm from ice surface to beneath upper water column. The objective is to get the in situ temperature distribution and seasonal changes of sea ice column and ice-water interface. Results indicated that large temperature gradient in the sea-ice column was recorded. The temperature difference between the ice surface and bottom ice can be over 10.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, nella fjord, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, ocean temperature, field surveys, antarctica, sea ice column, ocean, amd, cn, sea ice, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Water Vapor Density. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes water vapor density measurements. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wvapd.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wvapd_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology cohm_wvapd_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, humidity, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, water vapor density, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, densities, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Geographical Mapping of Specific Areas in the Province of Manitoba, Canada. ABSTRACT: A number of datasets have been acquired through many projects since 1974. There is a range of data including mapping of wetlands, wildfires and forest fires, peatland, surface vegetation, tree defoliation, soils, crop data and monitoring forest areas for air polution. Areas covered are generally small specific locations within the province. The centre has also collected data on projects in other areas nationally and internationally. Vegetation coverage in the Arctic region in Canada, and agricultural data on behalf of the U.S.S.R. are some of the other regions where the datasets have been procured. The data gathered is over a specific period of time with some projects on-going. Aerial photography, airborne and satellite remote sensing have been used.Data is used for global change research, mapping and world crop monitoring. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, noaa poes, vegetation, none, crops, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, agriculture, wetlands, northern hemisphere, surface vegetation, peatlands, north america, aquatic ecosystems, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, avhrr, defoliation, vertical location, polar, mapping, topography, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, surface water, canada, cgdi, fires, canada, geographic region, western hemisphere, forestry, landsat, 
TITLE: Mare Cognitum - Nordic Seas Ecosystem. ABSTRACT: Mare Cognitum 1993 - 2001 Mare Cognitum aimed to identify the major factors and mechanisms causing variability in the Nordic Seas ecosystem. Insight into the functioning of the ecosystem will serve as a basis for development of prognoses of ocean climate, biological production and state of the fish stocks. This is vital knowledge for our future goal: an ecosystem approach to management of the resource withing the Nordic Seas. Mare Cognitum was designed to look at the following issues: Large scale circulation; climate and Arctic front dynamics; climate and deep water formation; climate and water mass exchange in the Nordic Seas; Hydrodynamic numerical modelling; organic carbon fluxes and budgets in the Greenland Sea; Climate variability and biological production; vertical mixing, stratification and primary production; the effect of nutrients, light and turbulence on primary and secondary production;, Life histories and population dynamics of Calanus spp.; Interactions and feeding ecology of pelagic fish populations; Migration and feeding of Norwegian spring spawning herring; Climate variability , zooplankton production and growth of Norwegian spring-spawning herring; Biology of salmon during the oceanic feeding migrations; Genetics and population structure of Calanus and blue whiting; Abundance estimation of zooplankton and fish by broad-band acoustics. The programme is currently completing its synthesis phase. Information supplied by Dr. Melle Webjoern. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, biological classification, nordic seas ecosystem, crustaceans, stratification, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, climate variability, north atlantic oscillation, ocean acoustics, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, feeding ecology, biogeochemical cycles, organic carbon fluxes, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, carbon, use, feeding habitats, biological production, aquatic ecosystems, oscillations, nao, international geosphere-biosphere programme, abundance estimation, thysanoessa inermis, ocean chemistry, pelagic habitat, secondary production, arctic front dynamics, northern europe, biosphere, turbulence, nutrient cycling, salmo salar, ecosystem functions, primary production, ocean, atlantic inflow, oceans, geographic region, deep water formation, atlantic salmon, continent, animals, invertebrates, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, meganyctiphanes norvegica, icelandic sea, migratory rates, routes, climate indicators, blue whiting, norwegian spring-spawning herring, micromesistius poutassou, scandinavia, food-web dynamics, plants, plankton, ocean optics, igbp, europe, polar, carbon dioxide, fronts, zooplankton, norwegian sea, earth science, chlorophyll, photosynthetically active radiation, clupea harnegus, usa, nasa, mare cognitum, greenland sea, population dynamics, atmospheric pressure, trophic dynamics, species, population interactions, calanus, fish, fish stocks, migration, norway, atlantic ocean, broad-band acoustics, ocean circulation, teleconnections, globec, 
TITLE: CO2, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained During the R V Thomas Washington Cruise TUNES-1 in the Equatorial Pacific Ocean, CDIAC NDP-062. ABSTRACT: [Summary adopted from the NDP-062 documentation] The Numeric Data Package NDP-062 consists of measurements of total carbon dioxide (TCO2), total alkalinity (TALK), and radiocarbon (delta14C), as well as hydrographic and chemical data, taken during the Research Vessel (R V) Thomas Washington Expedition TUNES-1 in the Equatorial Pacific Ocean (Section P17C). Conducted as part of the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE), the cruise began in San Diego, California, on May 31, 1991, and ended in Papeete, Tahiti, on July 11, 1991. WOCE Meridional Section P17C, along 135 W and between ~5 S and 36 N, was completed during the 42-day expedition. All 123 hydrographic stations (including 9 large-volume stations) were completed to the full water-column depth. Spacing between stations was 30 nautical miles, except between 3 N and 3 S, where it was 10 nautical miles. At 30 stations, CO2 measurements were provided for the U.S. Department of Energy's Carbon Dioxide Program. Hydrographic and chemical measurements made along WOCE Section P17C included pressure, temperature, salinity, and oxygen (measured by conductivity, temperature, and depth sensor), as well as bottle measurements of salinity, oxygen, phosphate, nitrate, nitrite, silicate, chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-11, CFC-12, delta14C, TCO2, and TALK. In addition, potential temperatures were calculated from the measured variables. The data set is available, free of charge, as a numeric data package (NDP) from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center. The NDP consists of two oceanographic data files; two FORTRAN 77 data-retrieval-routine files; a documentation file; and this printed report, which describes the contents and format of all files and the procedures and methods used to obtain the data. CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for the NDP's that are presently available. The FTP address for the ndp062 database is: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub ndp062" and "http:  cdiac.ESD.ORNL.GOV epubs ndp ndp062 ndp062.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, bathythermographs, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, biogeochemical cycles, woce, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, cfc-12, total co2, carbon, cfc-11, jgofs, talk, oxygen, north pacific ocean, inorganic carbon, hydrographic measurements, ocean chemistry, hydrocarbons, alkalinity, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, nitrite, water depth, ocean, oceans, radiocarbon, ocean pressure, salinity, density, dissolved gases, geographic region, cfcs, joint global ocean flux study, igbp, niskin bottles, world ocean circulation experiment, ndp-062, nitrate, nutrients, chlorofluorcarbons, polar, carbon dioxide, salinity, cfc, density, tco2, total alkalinity, pacific ocean, earth science, phosphate, cdiac, tunes-1, total carbon dioxide, carbon cycle, usa, nasa, potential temperature, silicate, equatorial pacific, ph, 
TITLE: Elevated Soil Temperature and Water Table Manipulation Data from Barrow, Alaska, 1999-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set contains elevated soil temperature and water table manipulation measurements taken at a tundra site near Barrow, Alaska, USA. Eighteen 60-cm diameter polycarbonate cylinders were installed into the ground at the end of the 1998 growing season when thaw depth was at its seasonal maximum to isolate plots of tundra. The cylinders were organized into three blocks of six for three replicates of the six treatments to be tested. The six factors tested include: control, elevated water table, lowered water table, elevated soil temperature, elevated soil temperature and elevated water table, and elevated soil temperature and lowered water table. Temperature data were collected from June 1999, until September 2001. Measurements were taken as part of the Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interactions Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System (LAII-ATLAS) program. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9732105. Data are available by FTP.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, atlas, thermocouples, arcss, laii, arctic, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, usa, nsf, united states of america, water table depth, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, soil temperature, probes, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, barrow, polar, ggd905, earth science, cryosphere, water table, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, temperature probes, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, opp, opp-9732105, surface water, tundra, national science foundation, water depth, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, thaw depth, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Monthly L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Terra Snow Cover Monthly L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MOD10CM) data set, new for Version 5 (V005), contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data in Hierarchical Data Format- Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 column by 3600 row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Monthly average snow cover is calculated from the daily global products for the month. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, nsidc daac, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: GISP2 (D Core) Helium Isotopes from Interplanetary Dust. ABSTRACT: Ice Core Interplanetary Dust Helium Isotope Data Helium isotope data from Ice Cores at GISP2 (Greenland) and Vostok (Antarctica) as a proxy for extraterrestrial dust flux.. KEYWORD: polar, continent, amd, us, arctic, earth science, ceos, usa, noaa, antarctica, paleoclimate, gisp2, greenland, particulate matter, north america, isotopes, greenland ice sheet project ii, amd, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: Real-Time Underwater Node Data from New Jersey. ABSTRACT: Real-time Underwater data for New Jersey coast are available online. The data includes underwater temperature, salinity, water depth, wave height, and wave period.. KEYWORD: continent, salinity, wave period, earth science, water temperature, wave height, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, sea surface topography, sea surface height, north america, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, ocean waves, 
TITLE: Cleopatra, Rjipfjorden 2007-2008:Sea ice, light, ice algae, phytoplankton and zooplankton. ABSTRACT: Location: Rjipfjorden, Nordaustlandet, Svalbard, Norway Parameters: CTD (temperature, salinity); Sea ice (thickness); Light (PAR surface and subsurface); Ice algaes (pigments, stoikiometry, nutrients, fatty acids, taxonomy); Zooplankton (abundance, genetics, stable isotopes, fatty acids) Sampling periods: 01.03-17.03.2007; 22.04-02.05.2007; 04.06-10.06.2007; 10.07-16.07.2007; August 2007; Sept 2007; 07.10-08.10.2007; April 2008. Metadata overview is available at the project homepage Results from zooplankton, phytoplankton and ice algae taxonomy abundance and fatty acids will be stored in Marin database at NP. KEYWORD: climate effects on planktonic food quality and trophic transfer in arctic marginal ice zones, svalbard and jan mayen, zooplankton, north atlantic ocean, earth science, biosphere, light transmission, arctic, no, cleopatra, ipy, ice algae, ocean, rijpfjorden, phytoplankton, plankton, water quality, water chemistry, atlantic ocean, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua and SeaWiFS Level 3 9KM Weekly Merged Chlorophyll Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of merged satellite measurements of global ocean chlorophyll data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform, and the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWIFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . SeaWiFS processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html . The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level-3 9 km merged chlorophyll products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods once the refined products for each of the contributing missions are processed. Increased coverage over the single mission product is realized through the merging of the two data sets. There is a substantial improvement (> 50%) in coverage at the daily level, decreasing with the increase in the temporal period binned. The MODIS SeaWiFS merged product is generated in essentially two steps. First, the MODIS Level-3 file is reduced in resolution from 4 to 9 km to match the global resolution of the SeaWiFS chlorophyll product. This involves combining the sum and sum squared field values for the (typically) four 4 km bins into the corresponding single 9 km bin. In the second step, the reduced-resolution MODIS file and the corresponding SeaWiFS Level-3 file are combined. Because both input files are at the same 9 km resolution, the summing is performed bin-by-bin. The Standard Mapped Image file that is generated from the merged Level-3 binned file stores scaled 16 bit integer values rather than the usual 8 bit values, giving the user much greater numerical precision. The actual images displayed on the Ocean Color website in PNG format are provided for visual inspection only. Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level 3 Merged Chlorophyll data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov Merged . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Crude Oils and Organic Solvent Extracts From Canadian and Selected International Sedimentary Basins. ABSTRACT: This data set includes location information and gross composition data (abundances of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon fractions) for the collection of crude oil samples and organic solvent rock extracts. Laboratory techniques include soxhlet organic solvent extraction, distillation of crude oils and column liquid chromatography. These data are applicable to hydrocarbon exploration and development, and have been utilized in most sedimentary basins including the Beaufort-Mackenzie, Mackenzie Corridor, Franklinian Geosyncline, Sverdrup Basin, Jeanne D'Arc Basin, Scotian Shelf, Grand Banks, Michigan, Appalachian, Bowser, Queen Charlotte, Williston and Western Canada Sedimentary and some international basins.These data are used in the determination of: geochemical composition of crude oils and rock extracts, oil alteration, biodegradation, thermal maturation, petroleum system analysis, petroleum source potential, petroleum exploration, energy assessment and environmental geology. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, resins, franklinian geosyncline, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, williston basin, liquid fractionation, mackenzie corridor, north america, ontario, condensates, petroleum, queen charlotte basin, geochemistry, petroleum systems, hydrocarbons, bitumen, oil analysis, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, petroleum geochemistry, western canada sedimentary basin, wcsb, saturated hydrocarbons, organic extracts, canada, cgdi, organic geochemistry, canada, ocean, new brunswick, michigan basin, scotian shelf, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, natural resources, aromatic hydrocarbons, nunavut, northwest territories, beaufort-mackenzie, rock extracts, nso compounds, saskatchewan, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, polar, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, source rocks, quebec, biogeochemistry, alberta, crude oils, solvent extracts, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, asphaltenes, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with high speed plankton collector by 16th CHINARE in 1999-2000. ABSTRACT: 45 planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean using high speed plankton collector.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Monthly Means of Meteorological Parameters from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk. ABSTRACT: The MMMP data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include monthly means of air temperature and precipitation for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, asia, earth science, air temperature, usa, nasa, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, mmmp, precipitation, eastern europe, russia, monthly data, ground stations, geographic region, eurasia, europe, statistics, 
TITLE: R. Cartographic Boundary Files, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: Cartographic Boundary Files (CBFs) contain the boundaries of standard geographic areas together with the shoreline around Canada and the larger inland lakes, all integrated in a single layer. In the second edition (released October 8, 2002), the hydrography was generalized by removing small lakes from the file to reduce noise. Large rivers emptying into the oceans were closed off, then the interior hydrography (double line river and lake polygons) was extracted to create the supplementary hydrography. The coordinates are latitude longitude and are based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83). The Cartographic Boundary Files for 2001 replace the Digital Cartographic Files produced for the 1996 Census. A reference guide is included (Catalogue No. 92F0171GIE). Catalogue number for Provinces and Territories (CBFs)is: 92F0160XCE01000 Catalogue number for Census Divisions and Economics Regions (CBFs)is: 92F0161XCE01000 Catalogue number for Census Consolidated Subdivisions(CBFs)is: 92F0167XCE01000 Catalogue Number for Census Subdivisions(CBFs)is: 92F0162XCE01000 Catalogue number for Designated Places (CBFs)is: 92F0165XCE01000 Catalogue number for Census Metropolitan Areas Census Agglomerations (CBFs)is: 92F0166XCE01000 Catalogue number for Census Tracts (CBFs)is: 92F0168XCE01000 Catalogue number for Urban Areas (CBFs)is: 92F0164XCE01000 Catalogue number for Dissemination Areas (CBFs)is: 92F0169XCE01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteCartographic Boundary Files can be used with Census of Population, Census of Agriculture or other Statistics Canada data for data analysis and thematic mapping (with appropriate software). Geographic codes provide the linkage between the statistical data and the geographic area boundaries. CBFs can also be used to create new geographic areas by aggregating standard geographic areas, and for other data manipulations available with the user's software. The CBFs are positionally consistent with the Road Network Files and Skeletal Road Network Files, which can provide additional geographic context for mapping applications. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Nad83 CNT Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, land use, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, provinces, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, provincial differences, canada, cgdi, territories, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, computer aided mapping, 
TITLE: Baffin Island 500 Year Summer Temperature Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: Data consists of summer temperature reconstruction based on laminae thickness in sediments from Upper Soper Lake, Baffin Island, Canada. ABSTRACT (from the online documentation): Laminated sediments from Upper Soper Lake on southern Baffin Island provide a new 500-year record of temperature change in the Arctic. Radiometric dating, using 210 Pb and Pu, shows that the light- and dark-coloured laminae couplets are annually deposited varves. Dark laminae thickness is strongly correlated to average June temperature from Kimmirut (r = 0.82), reflecting the influence of temperature on snowmelt and fluxes of runoff and suspended sediment. This relationship allowed the construction of a palaeotemperature record that documents large-amplitude interannual to decadal variability superimposed on distinct century-scale trends, including 2 deg C average warming and maximum temperatures during the 1900s. Similar patterns of change are seen in individual and regionally averaged palaeotemperature records from around the circum-Arctic. Upper Soper Lake records temperatures, rates of change and variance during the twentieth century that are all anomalously high within the context of the last 500 years, and outside the observed range of natural variability. Comparisons of Upper Soper Lake and Arctic average palaeotemperature to proxy-records of hypothesized forcing mechanisms suggest that the recent warming trend is mostly due to anthropogenic emissions of atmospheric greenhouse gases. The magnitude of the warming and decade-scale variability throughout the records, however, indicate that natural forcing mechanisms such as changing solar irradiance and volcanic activity, as well as positive feedbacks within the Arctic environment, also play an important role.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, soper lake, pages, north america, ocean, lake records, quaternary, polar, paleoclimate reconstructions, temperature reconstruction, paleotemperature, surface air temperature, paleo stop date 10 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, paleo start date 500 ybp, canada, varve deposits, baffin island, air temperature reconstruction, geographic region, climate reconstruction, 
TITLE: Ice-wedge cracking and thermal conditions, Adventdalen, Svalbard. ABSTRACT: Vertical and horizontal movements of ice-wedge troughs, ground temperature and moisture in the active layer and uppermost permafrost (down to 2 m).. KEYWORD: erosion, sedimentation, the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, land surface, degradation, tsp, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, international polar year, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Permafrost Features in Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet listing the locations and types of features that formed in present, and former, permafrost environments in northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland during the interval between the last glacial maximum and the present. This list includes features such as fossil ice-wedge casts and their inferred or measured ages.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Preliminary Investigation of Paleoenvironment, Processes, and Carbon Stocks of Drained Thaw-Lake Basins, Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains measurements taken from 78 drained thaw-lake basins on the Arctic Coastal Plain between Barrow and Atqasuk, Alaska. Investigators collected and analyzed sediment cores to determine soil and vegation composition, and used Landsat 7+ imagery and degree of basin polygonization to determine the relative age of the basins. Analysis of the cores included pollen, radiocarbon, and organic carbon subsampling. This project was part of an effort to determine the amount of carbon sequestered in drained basins, to determine changes in carbon accumulation rates over time, and to understand the influence of climate on the geomorphological evolution of lake basins on the Arctic Coastal Plain.. KEYWORD: solid earth, nsidc, atqasuk, ak, arctic, vegetation species, usa, noaa, arctic system science, soil depth, vegetation composition, north america, carbon, alaska, wet organic depth, peat depth, drained thaw-lake basins, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, satellites, basin age, arctic system science data coordination center, gpr, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, radiocarbon dating, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, permafrost, frozen ground, organic matter, radiocarbon, rocks, minerals, geographic region, sediments, nsf, opp, arcss, microfossils, nsf, continent, active layer, pollen, arctic coastal plain, arcss, laii, vegetation, paleoclimate, snow vehicle, drained thaw-lake, carbon accumulation, age determinations, usa, nsf, united states of america, helicopter, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, soils, peat, snow, ice, polar, bason polygonization, sv, barrow, ak, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, coring devices, adcc, arcss089, tundra, ground penetrating radar, opp-9911122, national science foundation, soil chemistry, opp9911122, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Yearly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Landsat 5 TM Mosaic of Yukon Territory, Canada. ABSTRACT: This is a full resolution Landsat 5 TM mosaic of Yukon Territory. This data is freely available on-line, via the Spatial Image Web Server, and can be viewed using a standard Internet Browser. This image can also be used directly in GIS CAD Office applications, with the use of free plug-ins available from http:  www.ermapper.com (downloads section). An off-line copy of this data can be obtained by contacting Spatial Mapping Ltd.To make large raster datasets instantly accessible to end users on their desktop applications, without requiring them to download, convert or enhance the data prior to its use. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Transverse Mercator Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, vertical location, polar, infrared wavelengths, gcmd, surface radiative properties, reflectance, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, canada, cgdi, northern hemisphere, canada, orbital characteristics, north america, spectral, engineering, platform characteristics, geographic region, reflected infrared, western hemisphere, landsat 5 tm, yukon territory, bidirectional reflectance, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Radar sounding of englacial water on Storglaciaren, Sweden. ABSTRACT: These data were acquired by a ground-based, ice-penetrating radar study of Storglaciaren in July of 2001 and 2002. Closely spaced grids were made in 4 locations using GPR at frequencies of 50 and 100 MHz. GPS measurements of the grid locations were acquired but individual radar traces are not geolocated. The purpose of this project is to understand how water is delivered from the surface of a glacier through a linked system of cavities and conduits to the bed, and the evolution of this system through time. Our research site is Storglaciaren, a polythermal glacier in Arctic Sweden. The methods we utilize are ice penetrating radar to image englacial features containing water and hot-water drilling to intersect them. A variety of down-hole instruments including bore-hole video are deployed to study the morphology of water-filled conduits. The latter activities are carried out by our co- investigators at Portland State University and the University of Stockholm. The radar portion of the project has been carried out by St. Olaf College and is the focus of this listing.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, radar reflectivity, arctic, field surveys, scandinavia, hydrologic, sweden, englacial, spectral, engineering, glacier, europe, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, gpr, ceos, northern europe, field investigation, glaciers, ice sheets, radar imagery, ground penetrating radar, radar, amd, storglaciaren, geographic region, 
TITLE: Aerial Photography of Canada. ABSTRACT: The collection of Aerial Photography covering Canada contains over six million aerial photographs and spans over 70 years of aerial photography in Canada. Imagery from various years can be found for most areas of Canada. Our standard product is a 25cm x 25cm (10" x 10") vertical aerial photograph contact print. Most of these photographs are monochrome (black and white), but some areas are available in colour or infrared. Other products available are enlargements up to 101cm x 152cm, digital aerial photographs, transparencies, diapositives and custom mosaics. Each photo is cross-referenced to an index map or flight report that indicates the exact flight path and flight altitude, identifies film type, film number, photo centres, and specifies date, time of exposure, camera and weather conditions for that particular run. These photographs can be readily transformed into a variety of other products. Photographs are available in digital form. An on-line search and ordering system is currently being developed and will be available shortly. Aerial photography is used primarily for mapping purposes; however, it also has many other applications such as urban and rural planning, environmental impact studies, civil law cases, real estate evaluation, outdoor recreation and even as wall art. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, infrared, none, boundary surveys, pipelines, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, infrared wavelengths, topography, nova scotia, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, biosphere, surface water, landforms, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, canada, buildings, new brunswick, political divisions, biomass burning, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, visible imagery, gcmd, vegetation, infrared imagery, nunavut, northwest territories, saskatchewan, lakes, cultural features, soils, fire ecology, vertical location, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, air photos, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, prince edward island, infrastructure, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: Daily Precipitation Sums at Coastal and Island Russian Arctic Stations, 1940-1990. ABSTRACT: This data set contains precipitation data originally recorded in log books at 65 coastal and island meteorological stations, and later digitized at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, Russia, under the direction of Vladimir Radionov. Records from most stations begin in 1940. Instrumentation was generally a rain gauge with Nipher shield until the early 1950s (for most stations), when the Tretyakov precipitation gauge replaced earlier instrumentation. Data have not been adjusted for gauge type or wind bias. Observers corrected the data from 1967-1990 for wetting loss as they recorded the station data.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, coastal precipitation, continent, polar, precipitation amount, arctic, earth science, land-sea boundary, ceos, usa, noaa, rain gauges, precipitation, eastern europe, noaa, russia, aari, island precipitation, ground stations, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Ground Control Database, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Ground Control Database (GCDB) is a collection of geo-corrected aerial photo images (or chips) developed for the GIS and remote sensing community. The database provides accurate and useful information obtained from corrected aerial photos. This database can be used by the end-user as a fundamental data source for correction and validation of satellite, vector and raster data, as well as for map correcting and updating, analysis, modeling, and image processing. The GCDB was initially developed to supplement processing and or correction of LANDSAT and SPOT data for value added satellite imagery products. Now, through GeoGratis, online access to the GCDB is offered as an efficient and cost effective method of delivery to the end-user.The GCDB was initially developed to supplement processing and or correction of LANDSAT and SPOT data for value added satellite imagery products. z39.50s:  geogratisp.ccrs.emr.ca:6675 GROUND CONTROL DATABASE Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Ground control points Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Transverse Mercator Scale Factor at Central Meridian: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, terrain elevation, visible imagery, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, boundary surveys, ground control points, northern hemisphere, gcp, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, spectral, engineering, air photo, human dimensions, yukon territory, polar, aerial photography, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, photography, 
TITLE: Canada's Forest Inventory. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Forest Inventory (CanFI) consists of data including: Ecoregion (Environment Canada), Forest Section (Rowe 1972), access, data source, ownership, status, land class, site quality, stocking class, maturity class, age class, forest type, predominant genus, lead species, year of information, area (ha), pulpwood volumes (m3 ha), for 19 species groups. This is a National inventory reporting system. Plans are to provide a graphic and attribute data update in year 2002.To be able to report periodically on the state of Canada's forests and to provide data for forest sector modelling (carbon stocks) and research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Forest inventory map sheet number, area of interest. Direct Spatial Reference: Rectangular grid, variety of schemes even within a single province. The schemes include: 10 x 10 km UTM cells (NT, YT and PE, SK in part), townships (AB, SK in part, MB, ON), and subsets of the 1:50,000 and 1:250,000 scale NTS map sheets (BC, SK in part, ON in part, NB, NF), counties (NS), 100 x 100 km UTM grid (northern Quebec), large polygons (s. AB, n. MB, n. ON). Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Grid Coordinate System Name: Rectangular Grid Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, vegetation, none, nunavut, northwest territories, forest composition, vegetation structure, biomass dynamics, gis, northern hemisphere, forest cover, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, land cover, vertical location, polar, biomass, land productivity, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, biosphere, land resources, quebec, alberta, ecosystem functions, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, newfoundland, new brunswick, forest inventory, geographic region, western hemisphere, forestry, 
TITLE: Ionospheric Data with DPS-4 for Zhongshan Station. ABSTRACT: During the austral summer of 1994 1995 the Digisonde Portable Sounder-4 (DPS-4) was deployed at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica by the 11th Chinese National Antarctic Research Expedition. The instrument was installed and adjusted in January and has been in operation since the 3rd February, 1995. The monthly tables of ionospheric characteristics based on the observations of the DPS-4 are presented. In the tables, there are daily hourly values, monthly hourly medians, upper and lower quartiles, and upper and lower deciles of 14 characteristics.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, radar reflectivity, fixed observation stations, arctic, earth science, ceos, ionosphere, antarctica, zhongshan station, digisondes, radar, amd, cn, upper atmosphere, ionosonde, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Thickness and Snow Depth Data Collected by the Ship-based Video Observations onboard Antarctic Research Vessel Shirase. ABSTRACT: Sea ice thickness and snow depth data collected by the ship-based video observations. All the data are available from network library system (POLARIS) in NIPR.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, southern ocean, ccd imager, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, amd, jp, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, japanese antarctic research expedition, lutzow-holm bay region, ships, ipy, ocean, sea ice, international polar year, amd, jare, geographic region, snow, ice, snow depth, 
TITLE: GLDAS Mosaic Land Surface Model L4 Monthly 1.0 x 1.0 degree V001 (GLDAS_MOS10_M) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Mosaic model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The monthly product is generated by averaging all the 3-hourly products in that month. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Mosaic model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 1 Surface pressure Pa 11 Near surface air temperature K 32 Near surface wind magnitude m s 51 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 57 Total Evapotranspiration kg m^2 s 65 Snow Water Equivalent kg m^2 71 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 85 Average layer soil temperature K 86 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 99 Snowmelt kg m^2 s 111 Net Shortwave Radiation W m^2 112 Net Longwave Radiation W m^2 121 Latent Heat Flux W m^2 122 Sensible Heat Flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average Surface Temperature K 155 Ground Heat Flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface Runoff kg m^2 s 235 Surface Runoff kg m^2 s There are 3 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Data set of the determination on water nutrient salts in the southern ocean during the 3th Chinese Antarctic Research Expeidition in 1986 1987. ABSTRACT: In 1987,We conducted a comprehensive survey of oceanography in the area near the Antarctic Peninsula,This data set show the results of analyzing water nutrient salts.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, ocean chemistry, std, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, nutrients, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, salinity, temperature, depth, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: GLDAS CLM Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 1.0 x 1.0 degree Subsetted V001 (GLDAS_CLM10SUBP_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Common Land Model (CLM) V2.0 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS CLM model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 001 Surface pressure Pa 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 085 Average layer soil temperature K 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^x 111 Net shortwave radiation W m^2 112 Net longwave radiation W m^2 121 Latent heat flux W m^2 122 Sensible heat flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average surface temperature K 155 Ground heat flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 10 vertical levels each for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) and Soil Temperature (PDS 085) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Landslides, Set 1. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: This set of slides graphically illustrates the potential danger that major earthquakes pose to school structures and to the children and adults who happen to be inside at the time of the earthquake. It includes pictures from 1886 to 1988. The slide set includes nine destructive earthquakes that occurred in the U.S. and eight earthquakes that occurred in foreign countries. The slopes above streams and rivers are subjected to a variety of processes that cause them to recede and retreat from the river or stream channel. These processes, collectively called mass wasting, can be classified according to rapidity of movement and according to the type of materials that are transported. Gravity is the force behind all such downslope movement. Factors that enable the force of gravity to overcome the resistance of inertia and friction to move more material downslope include: saturation by water which acts as a lubricant, steepening of slopes by streams, waves, or road construction, alternate freezing and thawing, and earthquake vibrations. Mass wasting of surface material is widespread process that can be found in high mountains, desert hillsides, deep ocean shelves, steep ocean shores and even on the moon and other rocky planets. The major methods of mass movement include: Rockfalls: Large or small amounts of rock material break away from the face of a cliff as a result of weathering, and in the most rapid type of mass movement, free fall or bounce along an irregular slope to the base of the cliff forming talus. Rockslide: Rock material slides along a plane of structural weakness such as a bedding plane. Although they are most common on steep slopes, they can even occur on slopes of 15 degrees. Millions of tons of rock may plunge down slope at speeds greater than 160 km (100 miles per hour in what is often the most catastrophic form of mass wasting. Debris slide: Dry to moderately-wet, loose rock fragments and soil move rapidly over the surface of underlying bedrock. The interface of moving material and undrlying bedrock is dry in a debris slide. Debris avalanche: Loose earth on a steep slope becomes wet and slides to the bottom of the slope. Snow avalanche: Unstable snow breaks loose and plunges down slope carrying rock and debris, carving avalanche chutes. Debris flow: Rock fragments, mud, and water flow downslope as a thick viscous fluid. Debris flows may begin as slumps and continue as flows. Movement may be as slow as that of freshly poured concrete or as rapid as that of a river. Mudflow: Silt and clay particles with water content as high as thirty percent follow stream valleys until the terrain flattens. Then they spread out as fans. Mudflows are sometimes over 100 m (330 ft) thick; they can float large boulders and move houses from their foundations. The speed of movement depends on the slope and the water content of the flow. Landslide: Unconsolidated rock material and even the bedrock itself may be involved in what is usually a rapid movement of material beginning with the slumping of stream banks or sea cliffs, or the sliding of mountain sides. Landslides move as a unit or series of units along a definite plane (in contrast to debris flows which move as viscous fluids). The material moves downward and outward along a curved plane. Eventually the material breaks into fragments that slide over uneven ground at the base until friction overcomes the force of motion. Slumping: A resistant rock overlies a weaker rock layer. The weaker rock is eroded undermining the resistant rock and producing an unstable condition. Slump blocks can be as much as 5 km (3 mi) long and 150 m (495 ft) thick. They may move in a matter of seconds or gradually slip over a period of several weeks. SolifluctionThe upper zone of saturated soil flows slowly down even the most gentle slopes in arctic and subarctic regions where an impermeable permafrost area exists. Water can not percolate into this permafrost area so the thawed surface remains saturated and flows as a viscous fluid.Rock GlacierAngular rock debris resembling glaciers move as a body down slope at rates ranging from 3 cm (1.2 in) a day to 1 m (3.3 ft) a year. A considerable amount of ice exists in the pore spaces between the rock fragments and is responsible for much of the movement. The increased weight of rock fragments falling onto the flow cause the ice to flow. Steep cliffs and a cold climate that keeps ice permanently frozen are conditions that most often result in rock glaciers. A steep flow front, lobes, and concentric ridges on the flow are evidence of rock glaciers.CreepThe mantle on a slope moves downward almost imperceptibly under the constant pull of gravity. In areas subject to cold winters the water in the layers of soil or clay freezes and increases in volume. This lifts the rocks upward at right angles to the slope. However, when melting occurs the rocks fall vertically and so are moved downhill. Wetting and drying has the same effect since moisture causes expansion of clay materials. Burrowing organisms displace particles permitting the force of gravity to move them. Growing plant roots and the tramping of animals also force soil material downslope. Photograph credit: All photographs in this slide set were provided by B. Bradley of the University of Colorado's Geology Department. PURPOSE: Make available Damage Photos for research and education CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date Fee: $25.00 plus handling None $195.00 $145.00 plus handling and shipping outside the USA. KEYWORD: solid earth, polar, erosion, sedimentation, entrainment, seismology, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, weathering, global, usa, noaa, faults, coastal processes, earth science information partners program, landslides, erosion, seismic surface waves, seismic activity, oceans, esip, tectonics, geographic region, 
TITLE: Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) and Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Collected by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has collected chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) and nitrous oxide (N2O) from flask samples and in situ instruments located at monitoring stations. The Halocarbons and other Trace Species Group (HATS) of NOAA CMDL collects measurements for a standard suite of Radiatively Important Trace Species (RITS): CFC-12, CFC-11, CFC-113 (1,1,2-trichlorotrifluoroethane), methyl chloroform (MC), carbon tetrachloride (CT) and nitrous oxide (N2O). NOAA CMDL HATS stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO). Cooperative stations are at Niwot Ridge, Colorado (NWT); Alert, Canada (ALT); and Cape Grim, Australia (CGO). Starting in 1977, paired samples were collected each week in electropolished stainless steel flasks at the four NOAA CMDL HATS sites and Niwot Ridge. After 1980, flask pairs at South Pole were collected once a week. Collection of flask pairs at Alert bagan in 1988 and at Cape Grim in 1991. All flasks were shipped back to NOAA CMDL in Boulder, CO for analysis by electron capture gas chromatography (EC-GC). In 1987 the flask sample program was complemented by automated in situ measurements at the four NOAA CMDL HATS sites and Niwot Ridge. Principal investigators for the CFC-11 and CFC-12 in situ and flask measurements are: J. Elkins, T. Thompson, and J. Butler (NOAA CMDL) Principal investigators for the CFC-113 flask measurements are: S. Montzaka, J. Elkins, and J. Butler (NOAA CMDL) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats cfcs" "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats n2o" The following datasets are currently available via ftp: Monthly in situ CFC-11 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Hourly in situ CFC-11 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Daily in situ CFC-11 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Monthly global flask CFC-11 data. Monthly flask pairs CFC-11 data from ALT, BRW, CGO, MLO, NWR, SMO, and SPO. Monthly in situ CFC-12 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Hourly in situ CFC-12 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Daily in situ CFC-12 data from BRW, MLO, NWR, SMO and SPO. Monthly global flask CFC-12 data. Monthly flask pairs CFC-12 data from ALT, BRW, CGO, MLO, NWR, SMO, and SPO. Monthly flask pairs CFC-113 data from ALT, BRW, NWR, MLO, SMO, CGO, and SPO. Monthly global N2O data. For more information on the NOAA CMDL HATS program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " A subset of this data is available from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) as part of the Trends collection. "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, greenhouse effect, arctic, chlorodifluoromethane, halocarbons and halogens, usa, noaa, noaa, cfc-12, north america, alaska, cfc-11, ground stations, noah, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, ccl2f2, australia, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, cape grim, global warming, gas chromatographs, canada, ocean, chlorofluorocarbons, mauna loa, cfc-113, amd, geographic region, flask, ccl3f, continent, rits, nitrous oxide, american samoa, cape matatula, greenhouse gas, trichlorotrifluoroethane, united states of america, alert, cmdl, polar, cfc, ftp, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, australia, new zealand, earth science, ceos, n2o, carbon tetrachloride, colorado, samoa, niwot ridge, point barrow, central pacific ocean, south pole, 
TITLE: Marine Meteorological Data Collected on Ship in the Arctic for 2007-2009. ABSTRACT: Marine meteorological data for the Arctic region collected from the voluntary ships through Global Telecommunication System of the World Meteorological Organization (SHIP messages). KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, ocean winds, ipy operational oceanography for the arctic ocean and adjacent seas, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, beaufort sea, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ships, ipy, ipy arctic goos, ocean, sea ice, international polar year, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, ocean waves, barents sea, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Trends and Climatologies from SMMR and SSM I. ABSTRACT: NSIDC provides a suite of value-added products to aid in investigations of the variability and trends of sea ice cover. These products provide users with information about sea ice extent, total ice-covered area, ice persistence, monthly climatologies of sea ice concentrations, and ocean masks. The maps are in ArcInfo export file format. All other products are in flat binary or ASCII format with accompanying Portable Network Graphics (PNG) browse images. Products are derived from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP-F8, -F11, and -F13 SSM I sea ice concentrations at a grid cell size of 25 x 25 km. Data begin in October 1978 and processing is ongoing. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, dmsp 5d-3, f15, nimbus-7, north america, sea ice, electronic scanning microwave radiometer, ice persistence, north pacific ocean, bootstrap algorithm, maps, antarctica, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, canada, ocean, ross sea, climatology, monthly data, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, continent, bellingshausen sea, polar stereographic, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, sea ice extent, smmr, eosdis, gis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, nasa team algorithm, weddell sea, barents sea, polar, bering sea, amd, us, sea of okhotsk, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, daac, nasa, esip, atlantic ocean, esmr, multiyear sea ice concentration, ocean masks, total sea ice concentration, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 7th CHINARE in 1990-1991. ABSTRACT: 57 52GG planktonic samples were collected from Antarctic. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Surface exposure ages from Hjorth Hill, McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: This data base contains information on cosmogenic helium-3 and beryllium-10 surface exposure dates on Ross Sea Drift moraine boulders from Hjorth Hill, McMurdo Sound, Antarctica (77 degrees 31' South, 163 degrees 37' East). This study was designed to combine surficial ages with a Ground Penetrating Radar data set generated by Dr. M. Prentice at the University of New Hampshire. Surface exposure dating relies on the build-up of cosmogenic nuclides in materials exposured to cosmic radiation. Because cosmogenic rays only penetrate 2 m in rock, freshly eroded glacial debris only begins accumulating cosmogenic nuclides after deposition from the glacier. When production rates are known the concentration of cosmogenic nuclides in moraine boulders can be used to date formation of end moraines and drift sheets. The samples were collected by M.D. Kurz and R. Ackert and colleagues during the 1990 and 1992 field seasons. The samples are archived at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. The ages, provided below in the table, provide age constraints on this important record of past fluctuations of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. Surface exposure ages from Hjorth Hill --------------------------------------------3He 10Be Sample moraine Lithology mineral alt (m) Age (+-1 sig) Age (+-1 sig) ...........................................(kyrs) (kyrs) GP92-641-2 RS1r basalt olivine 300 40.0 0.8 KBA89-140 RS2 basalt olivine 310 56.7 1.8 KBA89-142 RS2 basalt olivine 310 83.3 2.7 KBA89-143 RS2 granite quartz 310 28.4 0.7 38.1 2.7 KBA89-148 RS2 quartzitequartz 310 47.9 0.6 48.2 0.7 DK92-477-3 W3 basalt olivine 365 21.4 0.8 DK92-477-4-1 W3 basalt cpx 365 40.6 1.2 DK92-477-4-2 W3 basalt cpx 365 29.3 1.7 3He ages calculated using production rate of 121 and 133 at g yr (sealevel, high lat) for olivine and quartz respectively. 10Be ages calculated using production rate of 5.1 at g yr RS1r=Ross Sea Drift recessional moraine S2= older Ross Sea Drift W3= Wilson-Piedmont drift. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, cosmogenic isotopes, wais, arctic, paleoclimate, age determinations, isotopes, exposure ages, land records, polar, amd, us, geochemistry, arctic system science data coordination center, surface exposure dates, earth science, ceos, western antarctic ice sheet, antarctica, adcc, glaciation, rocks, minerals, amd, mcmurdo sound, geographic region, 
TITLE: F6 SNOWFENCE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology f6_snow.html"] As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the F6 Snowfence station (in Taylor Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, air temperatures, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, vegetation, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soil temperature, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, par, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, soil temperatures, biosphere, antarctica, radiation, automatic remote weather station, frozen ground, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, snowfence, lawn, snow depth, 
TITLE: CRYSYS Frozen Ground Research, Canada. ABSTRACT: The frozen ground research focuses on the development of new means for mapping monitoring seasonally and perennially frozen ground (permafrost), and associated features (e.g. thaw slumps, active-layer detachment slides, thaw lakes) using optical and microwave remote sensing data. 1. Develop means for mapping frozen ground and associated features. 2. Develop an understanding of the physics related to frozen ground and its generation of signals detectable by remote sensing. 3. Develop means for observing and monitoring variables critical to model development and validation. 4. Explore the most effective combinations of remote sensing and ground-based measurements for extracting information on ground thermal conditions, and validate these at several test areas in Canada. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, spectral, engineering, mayo, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, degrading permafrost, microwave, polar, ground-ice slumps, earth science, cryosphere, thaw lakes, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, radar, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, churchill, ers sar data, microwave imagery, mackenzie valley, fosheim peninsula, geographic region, ungava, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Coastal Ocean Radar (CODAR) Site Locations. ABSTRACT: CODAR is used to measure the surface currents of the coastal ocean. A transmitter sends out a radio frequency that bounces off the ocean surface and back to areceiver antenna. Using this information and the principles of the Doppler shift, CODAR is able to calculate the speed and direction of the surface current. These calculations are made at about every half mile across the surface and extend as far as about twenty miles offshore. Detailed pictures are available for the following CODAR sites: Site 1: Brant Beach, New Jersey Site 2: Brigantine, New Jersey Central Site: Tuckerton, New Jersey Shack Interior: Instrument Box Antennas (Receiver and Transmitter). KEYWORD: ocean currents, continent, salinity, wind-driven circulation, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, sea surface topography, sea surface height, sst, north america, new jersey, oceans, salinity, density, ocean circulation, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Cumulative Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each MODIS Aqua Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, or a calendar year. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, and have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 3-Day (last 15 days), 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes 11 subordinate files (class = DataSubordinate), each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. MODIS Aqua ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes wind speed and wind direction measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, antarctica, lter mcm, atmospheric winds, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, wind, 
TITLE: Marine Sediment Geochemistry Data (Solid Phase), Global Locations. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of chemical analyses of metal concentrations and carbon contents of marine sediments (cores and grab samples) collected during research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) at more than 35 field study locations around the world. The concentrations of most metals are based on partial acid digestions of sediment samples; however, some analyses of "total" metal contents are also included.Chemical analyses of metal concentrations and organic carbon contents in marine sediments are used for many different purposes. Scientists at GSC-Atlantic have examined the spatial and temporal variations in the concentrations of metals and carbon in marine sediments to study the effects of both natural (e.g. variations in bedrock geology) and man-made (e.g. ocean dumping) phenomena. For example, these data have been used to study the effects of pollution (from sewage, smelter emissions, aquaculture, etc.) on coastal ecosystems, and have been used to track the dispersion of contaminants by oceanographic processes. Other studies have focused on understanding the natural processes that influence the distribution of metals in the sediment column after deposition, which are collectively referred to as diagenesis. The methods used for collecting, processing, and analyzing sediment samples have varied widely over time, and are generally tailored to meet the scientific objectives of individual research cruises. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, minerals, montevideo harbour, arctic, bay d'espoir, metals, bay of chaleur, kerguelen plateau, north america, carbon, passamaquoddy bay, south america, north pacific ocean, sediment composition, amd, ca, geochemistry, notre dame bay, country harbour, antarctica, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, halifax harbour, oceans, amd, canada east coast, scotian margin, geographic region, continent, gcmd, argentia harbour, north atlantic ocean, nares abyssal plain, sea of japan, great meteor abyssal plain, global, canada west coast, marine, marine geochemistry, antarctic coastal waters, strait of georgia, marine sediments, polar, inorganic geochemistry, sea of okhotsk, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, saint john harbour, atlantic ocean, larentian slope, uruguay, 
TITLE: T. Population Ecumene Census Division Boundary File, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Population Ecumene Census Division Boundary File contains a generalized population ecumene based on 2001 Census population density data with at least one ecumene polygon for every census division. When ecumene boundaries are used for dot and choropleth mapping, they give a more accurate depiction of the spatial distribution of data within standard geographic areas. The Population Ecumene Census Division Boundary File is available as a standard package for Canada free on the Internet or it can be purchased on CD-ROM through the nearest regional reference centre. This file is not a Cartographic Boundary File and it has its own reference guide (92F0159GIE). Coordinates: Latitude longitude (NAD83). Format: ARC INFO Interchange, and MapInfo Interchange for Windows. Catalogue number for the Internet is: 92F0159XIE01000 Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0159XCE01000 ...for more information visit our organization's web site.The population ecumene is disseminated to enable users to thematically map census division data. It enables users to display data where population is concentrated (where there are ecumene pockets) in Canada. Thus, data that describes population characteristics can be assigned to and displayed within the ecumene. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 CNT Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, land use, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, provinces, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, census divisions, alberta, geographical areas, provincial differences, canada, cgdi, territories, canada, latitude and longitude, prince edward island, new brunswick, thematic maps, geographic region, western hemisphere, computer aided mapping, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes relative humidity measurements from the Explorer's Cove meteorology station. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, atmospheric water vapor, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, humidity, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: HANPP Collection: Human Appropriation of Net Primary Productivity (HANPP) by Country and Product. ABSTRACT: The Human Appropriation of Net Primary Productivity (HANPP) by Country and Product portion of the HANPP Collection contains tabular data on carbon-equivalents of consumption by country and by type of product. The data were compiled from national-level FAO statistics on consumption of products such as vegetables, meat, paper, and wood. HANPP represents the amount of carbon required to derive food and fibre products consumed by humans including organic matter that is lost during harvesting and processing. Net primary productivity (NPP), the net amount of solar energy converted to plant organic matter through photosynthesis, can be measured in units of elemental carbon and represents the primary food energy source for the world's ecosystems. These tabular data were used to allocate country level NPP consumption to a spatial surface of NPP consumption (Global Patterns in Human Appropriation of Net Primary Productivity), which is part of this collection. This dataset is distributed by the Columbia University Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN). The purpose is to provide online access to tabular data on human appropriation of net primary productivity. The data are available from the Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC) in Microsoft Excel (XLS) format via direct download at http:  sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu es hanpp.html.. KEYWORD: belarus, western europe, solar region, japan, usa, ciesin, south africa, echo, gambia, guinea, western pacific ocean, san marino, estonia, dominican republic, oceania, cook islands, heard island, oklahoma, philippines, cuba, mauritius, georgia, republic, mali, southeastern asia, switzerland, milk, hong kong, armenia, vietnam, australia, laos, attitudes,preferences,behavior, yugoslavia, aruba, solomon islands, middle east, st pierre and miquelon, turkey, ukraine, austria, continent, iowa, macedonia, fyr, cambodia, global, eosdis, monaco, pitcairn islands, hungary, kenya, greenland, greece, paraguay, palau, vanuatu, cyprus, corona, colombia, azerbaijan, southern ocean, pacific ocean, syria, rwanda, libya, burkina faso, eastern europe, afghanistan, norway, esip, kiribati, dominica, agricultural production, arkansas, bulgaria, british columbia, south korea, southern asia, bahrain, nebraska, guatemala, ghana, somalia, jamaica, togo, liechtenstein, thailand, france, wood, netherlands antilles, poultry products, cape cod, agriculture and food security, montserrat, senegal, louisiana, animal commodities, turks and caicos islands, zambia, comoros, namibia, hanpp, palestine, taiwan, ocean, central america, canada, french polynesia, congo, democratic republic, honduras, virgin islands, indian ocean, maldives, chile, oman, vatican city, brazil, guyana, lesotho, germany, india, malaysia, peru, southern europe, st helena, agriculture, trinidad and tobago, net primary productivity, northern mariana islands, denmark, sri lanka, amazonia, belize, nauru, kuwait, slovenia, haiti, zimbabwe, asia, eastern asia, el salvador, micronesia, consumption, livestock products, bolivia, china, antigua and barbuda, israel, atlantic ocean, bangladesh, indiana, ireland, polynesia, mid-latitude, albania, human attitudes, preferences, and behavior, arctic, poland, agricultural products, western asia, united arab emirates, botswana, andorra, venezuela, marshall islands, caribbean, malawi, moldova, russia, sweden, carbon, north korea, human appropriation, massachusetts, south america, global ocean, madagascar, melanesia, norfolk island, caribbean sea, south atlantic ocean, wake island, vegetal food, cape verde, turkmenistan, eggs, fiber, africa, christmas island, iran, iraq, falkland islands, seychelles, northern europe, biosphere, kansas, indonesia, nicaragua, southcentral asia, st lucia, puerto rico, gibraltar, equatorial guinea, ethiopia, new brunswick, human consumption, eastern africa, ecuador, guinea-bissau, saudi arabia, spain, mauritania, algeria, agricultural outputs, american samoa, mozambique, north atlantic ocean, cameroon, portugal, costa rica, lithuania, human appropriation of net primary productivity, equatorial, panama, corsica, lebanon, luxembourg, mongolia, northern africa, vegetable products, st vincent and the grenadines, europe, kentucky, ciesin, italy, finland, bosnia and herzegovina, polar, benin, nigeria, sudan, chad, norwegian sea, liberia, djibouti, quebec, tajikistan, fiji, singapore, mexico, samoa, tunisia, bahamas, bhutan, central pacific ocean, eurasia, uganda, uruguay, dairy products, gabon, solid earth, western africa, niger, kyrgyzstan, pakistan, martinique, space, georgia, yemen, cayman islands, argentina, north america, anguilla, delaware, jordan, swaziland, human dimensions, burundi, slovakia, belgium, uzbekistan, st kitts and nevis, tanzania, svalbard and jan mayen, grenada, netherlands, sao tome and principe, guam, central africa, antarctica, eritrea, croatia, south carolina, core, earth observing system data information system, south pacific ocean, niue, amd, nepal, geographic region, brunei darussalam, morocco, oregon, tokelau, virginia, congo, republic, bermuda, british isles, arizona, guadeloupe, suriname, burma, central african republic, french guiana, vegetation, romania, wallis and futuna islands, angola, field crop products, new zealand, mediterranean sea, earth science information partners program, united states of america, cocos islands, czech republic, scandinavia, sierra leone, paper, consumer behavior, latvia, kazakhstan, cote d'ivoire, egypt, nevada, australia, new zealand, faeroe islands, united kingdom, earth science, ceos, malta, iceland, macau, papua new guinea, tuvalu, qatar, plant commodities, meat, reunion, tonga, barbados, new caledonia, southern africa, 
TITLE: Dataset of Zhongshan Station GPS tracking station system from 2001 to 2002. ABSTRACT: Zhongshan Station perennial satellite positioning tracking station is China's domestic satellite tracking network to the southern tip of the expansion of the Earth, both of China's satellite orbit determination or research, are very important to add, at the same time, China's participation in the window of the Antarctic cooperation. Antarctic geodesy research is based on the framework of the structure of SCAR (ICSU Antarctic Scientific Research Committee) was organized and implemented an international large-scale scientific research cooperation projects. The project began in 1992, conducted on an annual basis for 22 days the entire Antarctic GPS measurement battle together, our two stations since 1994 to participate. Its aims: (1) Measurement of the Antarctic plate quickly with the adjacent panels, as well as micro-plate faster faster the relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; (2) to identify the various internal Antarctic plate crust block the relative motion between; (3) reunification of the Antarctic, the vertical system of benchmarks to determine the Antarctic tide gauge stations of the elevation above sea level; (4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement, "the interaction of global and Antarctic" respect scientific research. In late 1998 of China's Zhongshan Station in the Battle of the SCAR GPS observatories built a perennial GPS satellite tracking station, the purpose of obtaining long-term follow-up site, a large number of, the original GPS system observational data through scientific calculation and comparison, access to GPS tracking site position in space with time resulting trajectory for the Antarctic region, geodynamics, geophysical structure and study the Earth's shape to provide information and data; and the Antarctic region precision positioning control points to provide quality date and reliable data. At the same time, the station of observational data on the analysis of satellite tracking technology to improve the accuracy of China's satellite orbit determination are useful.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, control surveys, gps receivers, gravitational field, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: Sagavanirktok Quadrangle, Alaska - Vegetation and Land Cover; USGS. ABSTRACT: This digital data set describes vegetation and land cover for the Sagavanirktok River quadrangle, Alaska. It's derived from analysis of one Landsat MSS scene. Data in 15 map categories are stored as 50-meter UTM referenced pixels. Data covers quadrangle directly south of the Beechey Point vegetation and land cover data set. Map units will be aligned to agree with those published for the Beechey Point quadrangle. Multi-temporal data analysis and Detrended correlation analysis are employed. The file is too large to remain online. It is stored on magnetic tape at Moffett Field, CA.. KEYWORD: continent, alpine, tundra, arctic, vegetation, aedd, geology, mss, field geology, united states of america, north america, sagavanirktok river, alaska, land, north slope, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, field maps, marine habitat, coastal habitat, land cover, wildlife, polar, maps, topography, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, land resources, landforms, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Tidal Prediction. ABSTRACT: The GeoPortal provides links to the Tides, Currents, and Water Levels Web Site, hosted by the Quebec Region of the Canadian Hydrographic Service. This web site provides predicted times and heights of high and low waters, and the hourly water levels for over seven hundred stations in Canada. The printed version is published yearly and is available through the authorized chart dealers. Presently there are no actual current predictions available on the Web site. Caution: The information available on this Web site may vary slightly from the information in the official documents published annually by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans and entitled Canadian Tide and Current Tables. In case of disparity, the information contained in the official publications will prevail.Provides links to information on tides and water levels in all areas of Canada.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, polar, mid-latitude, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, tides, marine environment monitoring, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, northern hemisphere, canada, ocean, north america, oceans, geobrowser, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, geoportal, 
TITLE: Distribution of Zooplankton in the Northeast Water Polynya (NEWP), Summer 1992 and 1993. ABSTRACT: These data represent quantitative taxonomic analyses of zooplankton samples collected while on board the USCGC Polar Sea, operating in the Northeast Water (NEW) Polynya in July and August of 1992 and 1993. Zooplankton samples were collected for displacement volume measurements and taxonomic enumeration with a Multiple Opening Closing Net and Environmental Sensing System (MOCNESS) and a Bongo net frame.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, biological classification, opp-9113754, ecological dynamics, arctic, copepod, arcss, oaii, new, usa, noaa, arctic system science, uscgc polar sea, sea ice, protists, microalgae, aquatic ecosystems, calanoid copepod, mizex, new, pelagic habitat, office of polar programs, national science foundation, biosphere, ships, community structure, ocean, oceans, geographic region, primary productivity, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, bongo nets, animals, invertebrates, arctic system science, oaii, northeast water polynya, arcss073, northeast water polynya, mocness plankton net, mocness, usa, nsf, plants, plankton, polar, newp, community dynamics, zooplankton, earth science, ceos, greenland sea, adcc, marginal ice zone experiment, diatoms, polynyas, opp9113754, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: 1999-2000 Raw data of CTD in Prydz Bay region of the southern Indian Ocean, CHINARE-16. ABSTRACT: A series of measurements in water temperature, conductivity and depth was carried out during the austral summer of 1999 2000 within and the north of Prydz Bay, the southern Indian Ocean.44 oceanographic stations were successfully completed.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, antarctica, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Weekly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic Pollen Data. ABSTRACT: This collection consists of some pollen slides collected from the Arctic.This data is used as a reference for comparison to data acquired through snow and ice core samples in the Arctic.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, pollen, environmental changes, arctic, vegetation, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, palynology, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, snow cores, land records, yukon territory, climate change, polar, ice cores, glacialology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, canada, cgdi, canada, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Lamont Doherty Seismic Reflection Negatives - Digital. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: This data set contains seismic reflection negatives furnished by Lamont Doherty. The negatives have been digitized and are available on request as digital images. PURPOSE: Seismic Research, Commercial Exploration CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, echo sounders, oil exploration, seismology, arctic, north atlantic ocean, natural gas exploration, usa, noaa, sea bed exploitation, mediterranean sea, marine geology, earth science information partners program, stratigraphic sequence, global ocean, seafloor topography, tectonics, marine sediments, polar, mineral resources, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geophysics, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, ocean, oceanography, oceans, seismic reflection profilers, amd, atlantic ocean, esip, geographic region, deep sea deposits, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Catalogue of expedition maps relevant to shelf ice research, period 1770-1950. ABSTRACT: In the proces of studying the dynamics of Antarctic ice shelves based on historic expedition maps, a map catalogue was compiled. This catalogue contains descriptions of (copies of) maps that are present in the Arctic Centre. Desription includes: Title, expedition(s)year of issue, place of issue, publisher, printer, ice data description, geographical area, scale, projection, archive (from which the copy was obtained), original archive inventory number. This entry is linked to the DIF entry: 'The development of the Antarctic ice shelves during the period 1770-1950 based on expedition maps', "http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?shelf_ice_1770-1950". KEYWORD: ice extent, extent, continent, arctic ocean, amd, nl, arctic, ice, expeditions, expedition maps (1770-1950), dynamics, database, shelf ice, ice edges, sea ice, map descriptions, historical maps, snow, ice, polar, maps, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, archive, antarctica, shelf, shelf ice maps, ocean, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Measurements of the tide level, current, temperature and salinity of McMurdo Sound and examination of the biological biomass in the water column. ABSTRACT: A measurement of the tides and currents in McMurdo Sound was conducted over several seasons. Current measurements were first made in McMurdo Sound by Hodgson (1907) during the stay of the Discovery in Winter Quarters Bay in 1902-1903. Further measurements were made in the 1950s with the establishment of both McMurdo Station and Scott Base. Current measurements made in the late 1950s and early 1960s are described in Tressler and Ommundsen, 1962, Gilmour et al., 1962, Gilmour, 1963 and Littlepage, 1965. In the 1970-71 field season, a tide gauge was established at McMurdo Station on the rock pier built for the inlet and outlet to the nuclear power plant at the time. Six weeks of records were obtained from this gauge. Holes were drilled in the fast ice and measurements were made of the current, standard temperature and salinity measurements. Biological hauls with a plankton net were made over one period of 25 hours and several periods of about 8 hours from up to 6 holes at various locations. The biomass of each sample was measured. Biological samples and hydrological casts were also made from a ship from the ice channel adjacent to Arrival Heights. In the 1972-73 field season, a line of five hydrographic stations extending 16 miles west from Cape Armitage were used to make measurements of current observations at 100m intervals with observation periods separated by several days. This line of stations covered the major part of the cross section available for flux through the open ended Sound and it was hoped that new information on the circulation, particularly the tidal circulation in McMurdo would be reached. In the 1973-74 field season, a tide gauge was installed at the de-salinisation plant outfall at McMurdo and a current meter was installed through a hole in the ice about 2 miles west of Cape Armitage. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, continent, water temperature, ocean temperature, field surveys, salinometers, plankton nets, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, polar, salinity, earth science, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, field investigation, tide gauges, amd, nz, oceans, amd, salinity, density, mcmurdo sound, geographic region, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: AVHRR Leads-ARI Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of AVHRR imagery selected from hard copy 'quick look' images to provide the best coverage possible over the Arctic approximately every three days for a three-year period. Level 1B data from NOAA SDSD have been calibrated and mapped to earth locations, then gridded (1 km pixels) on a basin scale to the polar stereographic projection. The projection is similar to that used by NSIDC to produce DMSP SSM I polar brightness temperature and sea ice products. Each image was ranked for areal coverage of particular seas and for degree of cloud coverage. Passes covering a large area are generally favored over shorter passes with less cloud cover. The data set was developed in support of the Office Of Naval Research Arctic Leads Accelerated Research Initiative (Arctic Leads ARI). The aim of the Initiative was to develop a more thorough understanding of the oceanography, meteorology, and ice dynamics surrounding formation and evolution of leads in sea ice. The leads ARI field experiment took place from March to April 1992. A spreadsheet containing the image rankings is available in hard copy (NOARL Tech. Note 118, April 1991); paper copies of the spreadsheet are available on request. Data set information is available on-line. Data are available on 8mm tape or selected images dates via ftp.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, navy, leadex, arctic, ice temperature, usa, noaa, noaa-10, sea ice, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, albedo, infrared wavelengths, polar albedo, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, brightness temperature, leads ari, ice albedo, earth observing system data information system, office of naval research arctic leads accelerated research initiative, ocean, leads, arctic leads experiment, dod, oceans, geographic region, office of naval research, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, chukchi sea, atmospheric radiation, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, north atlantic ocean, eosdis, earth science information partners program, ice dynamics, snow, ice, avhrr, barents sea, bering sea, polar, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, reflectance, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, onr, noaa-8, noaa-9, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Dissolved Al in the Southern Ocean. ABSTRACT: Sampling and Analytical Methodology: Samples were taken using 24 internally Teflon-coated PVC 12 litre GO-FLO Samplers (General Oceanics Inc.) mounted on an all-titanium frame (De Baar et al., 2008). This frame was connected to a 17.7 mm diameter Kevlar hydrowire with seven independent internal signal conductor cables (Cousin Trestec S.A.) and controlled from onboard. Each GO-FLO sampler had a special ultraclean all-teflon PTFE valve (Cole Parmer; PN A-06392-31) installed. Samples for trace metal analysis were collected from the GO-FLO bottles in a class 100 clean room environment. The water was filtered over a 0.2 m filter cartridge (Sartrobran-300, Sartorius) under pressure (1.5 atm) of (in-line prefiltered) nitrogen gas exerted via a special connector instead of the regular air bleeding valve at the top of each GO-FLO sampler. Sub-samples for Al were taken in cleaned LDPE sample bottles (125 mL) from each GO-FLO bottle. All sample bottles were rinsed five times with the sample seawater. The analyses of dissolved Al were performed on shipboard after the method developed by Resing and Measures (1994) with improvements by Brown and Bruland (2008). This method is a flow injection analysis, based on the fluorescence from the reaction between lumogallion and Al. Samples were stored in a refrigerator (4C) and analysed usually within 24 h after sampling but always within 36 h. Samples were acidified at least 1 h before analysis with 12 M ultraclean HCl (Baseline Hydrochloric Acid, Seastar Chemicals Inc.) to a pH of 1.8. In the flow injection system the samples were buffered inline to a pH of 5.5  0.1 with ultraclean 2 M ammonium acetate buffer. This buffer was produced after Aguilar-Islas et al. (2006) by diluting a saturated solution of ammonium acetate crystals to a 2 M solution with MQ (Millipore Milli-Q deionised water R > 18.2 M cm-1). The pH was subsequently adjusted to be between 8.8 and 8.9 with ultraclean ammonium hydroxide. The latter was produced by bubbling 0.2 m filtered high purity ammonia gas through MQ water. The buffered sample was pre-concentrated during 200 s on a Toyopearl AF-Chelate 650M (TosoHaas, Germany) column. Hereafter the column was rinsed for 60 s with MQ water to remove interfering salts. The Al was subsequently eluted from the column with 0.16 M HCl (Suprapure, Merck) during 250 s. The eluate of Al in HCl entered the reaction stream which consisted of a lumogallion (Pfaltz & Bauer) solution in 4 M ammonium acetate buffer. The 4 M buffer was produced similar to the 2 M buffer (see above), but with the pH adjusted to be between 6.4 and 6.5 and the lumogallion was a 4.8 mM solution in MQ. The mixing of the HCl and the buffer results in a reaction pH between 5.3 and 5.4 at which an Al-Lumogallion chelate complex is formed which can be detected by its fluorescence. The complex was mixed in a 10 m reaction coil placed in a water bath of 50 C. Hereafter a 5% Brij-35 (Merck) solution in MQ was added to increase the sensitivity (Resing and Measures, 1994) and mixed in a 3 m length mixing coil. Afterwards the emission of the fluorescent complex was detected on a FIA-lab PMT-FL detector with a 510 until 580 nm emission filter and a 480 until 490 nm excitation filter. Concentrations of Al were calculated in nanomolL-1 (nM) from the peak heights. The system was calibrated using standard additions from a 5000 nM Al stock solution (Fluka) to filtered acidified seawater of low (<0.5 nM) Al concentration that was collected in the Antarctic Ocean. A six-point calibration line (0, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 nM Al standard additions) and blank determination were made every day. The 3 lowest points (0, 1 and 2 nM Al standard additions) of the calibration line were measured in triplicate and the 3 highest points (4, 6 and 8 nM Al standard additions) in duplicate in order to add more weight to the lower part of the calibration line. The blank was determined by plotting the signals of increasing pre-concentration times (30, 60, 120, 180 and 240 seconds) of the filtered acidified seawater of low (<0.5 nM) Al concentration also used for the calibration. A line was fitted through these data points and the intercept of the line taken as the blank, which was usually below 0.2 nM Al. The latter value of 0.2 nM was also the maximum allowed blank before starting a series of analyses. The limit of detection, defined as three times the standard deviation of the lowest concentration observed, was 0.07 nM. The flow injection system was cleaned every day by rinsing with a 0.5 M HCl solution. Data Processing: A standard was measured in triplicate every day. This standard was a sub-sample of a 25 L volume of filtered seawater that was taken at the beginning of the cruise in the South East Atlantic Ocean. The relative standard deviation of the replicate analysis seawater sample that was analysed 36 times on different days in triplicate was 3.16%. The relative standard deviation on single days was on average 1.5%. The average concentration of Al of this standard was 3.56 nM and the deviation from this average for a given measuring day was used as a correction factor. To verify whether this correction was decreasing the inter-daily variability in the dataset, every day a sample which was collected and measured the previous measuring day, was analysed once again. The deviation between the concentrations measured on the different days decreased from 4.8% to 3.5%, indicating the data correction is beneficial. As an independent comparison, the certification samples collected on the American SAFe cruise (Johnson et al., 2007) were analysed in triplicate for Al. The resulting concentrations of Al for both SAFe Surface (S) and SAFe deep (D2) from 1000 m, agreed very nicely the community consensus value on the absolute concentrations of Mn in the SAFe samples. The dataset was scanned for obvious outliers and these have been quality flagged with the number 4. Some samples gave anomalous nutrient results for the intended depth and were assumed to have been closed at the wrong depth and quality flagged with the number 8. All other values are assumed to be correct and flagged with the number 0.. KEYWORD: amd, nl, dissolved aluminium, geotraces, aluminum, trace elements, international polar year, prime meridian, weddell sea, south atlantic ocean, polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, r, v polarstern, flow injection analysis, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, fia, 
TITLE: Temperature data from the Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment 1991 (MLML91). ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland in 2822m of water. Data is available from a mooring fielded from April 29-September 6, 1991. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Temperature Data from this experiment include: 12384 records Sample Rate: 900 seconds (15 minute) 16 Depth Bins Color contour plot of complete temperature dataset Instruments: Vector Averaging Wind Recorder, Brancker Temperature recorder, and Multi-Variable Moored System See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml91 mlml91temp.html". KEYWORD: north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Surface Meteorological Data at Zhongshan Station from 1989-1998. ABSTRACT: These surface meteorological observations have been made continuously since March, 1989 at Zhongshan Station operated by CHINARE. Its international index of weather report is 89573. Observation techniques and methods were performed according to the World Meteorology Organization (WMO) and Chinese Meteorological Administration.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, shortwave radiation, arctic, air temperature, clouds, ozone, precipitation, freeze, frost, amd, cn, humidity, sleet, surface winds, uvb, polar, rain, surface pressure, atmospheric phenomena, surface air temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, short wave radiation, wind speed, direction, maximum, minimum temperature, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, cloud height, ultraviolet radiation, zhongshan station, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, cloud amount, frequency, water vapor, snow, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, fog, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Mass Balance of the Collins Ice Cap on King George Island in West Antarctica. ABSTRACT: Mass balance observations were carried out during the 1991 1992 Chinese Antarctica Expedition, when 64 stakes and 15 snow pits were established on Little Dome. Nine sets of simultaneous observations were conducted over the course of a full year. Combined with ice core data, the mass balance pattern of the ice cap can be obtained, providing estimates to mass balance variations over the past 20 years.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, mass balance, arctic, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, west antarctica, ablation zones, accumulation zones, ice augers, amd, cn, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, ground-based observations, polar, ice cores, accumulation, collins ice cap, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, coring devices, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, snow pits, king george island, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Macro and megabenthic communities in the High Arctic Basin: Initial Findings. ABSTRACT: This dataset investigates the macro- and megabenthos of the Canada Basin, which is one of the biologically least known areas of the Arctic deep sea. Macro-infauna was collected with 11 box cores at six stations ranging from 640 to 3,250 m water depth. Total abundance ranged from 3 to 265 individuals 0.04 square meters (75 - 6,625 individuals per square meters) and decreased with increasing depth. Biomass ranged from 0.04 to 228 mg wet weight 0.04 square meters and followed the same trend. Polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves dominated the faunal densities, biomass and species numbers. A total of 90 benthic invertebrate species taxa (including 15 identified from under-water imager), not part of this data set) from four biogeographic affinities were identified, including at least three new species of Isopoda. The evident low abundances and biomass are in agreement with findings from the Eurasian Arctic deep sea. This dataset exist in Excel format, and presents the foundation for a scientific publication by Bluhm et al (2005). The purpose of the dataset is to assess species composition, abundance and distribution of the infauna of the Arctic Canada Basin.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, chordates, macrobenthic, abundance, arctic, aschelminthes, chordata, echinodermata, distribution, canada basin, cnidaria, cnideria, aquatic ecosystems, polar, biomass, infauna, earth science, annelida, arthropoda, ceos, sipunculida, box core, biosphere, bryozoa, northwind ridge, porifera, hemichordata, benthic habitat, ocean, mollusca, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Colonial Waterbird Inventory and Monitoring Program. ABSTRACT: Purpose: 1. Regulatory agencies need to have data on colony or roost site locations and feeding areas to assist them in making decisions about protection and or acquisition. 2. State, Federal, and NGO groups need to know status and trends of selected populations of waterbirds at local, regional, and national scales. 3. Waterbird monitoring may provide useful "bioindication" of changes in wetland habitats over time 4. Waterbirds are an important recreational resource (e.g. bird watchers) and are often used as symbols for conservation (e.g., National Audubon Society logo, Maryland's Chesapeake Bay commemorative license plate). Thus, their status is often quite conspicuous. Abstract: Since the demise of the Colonial Bird Register at Cornell University, no national colonial waterbird population database currently exists. Planning is underway (both in USGS, Biological Resources Division and the US Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS)) to develop a monitoring program. Feedback on a data form has been solicited from a number of states and many have responded. We now have a set of "core fields" that have been agreed upon; these represent the minimum set that is felt to be necessary to determine status and trends, including: (1) colony site location and name, (2) general nesting habitat description and use, (3) census methods, and dates, and (4) population size of each species. Given the various types of software and hardware in use in different states, the most effective way to centralize the data would be to have contributing agencies provide an exported data file and description of the data fields. The location of the centralized database is expected to be the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center. The planning at this point includes an analysis by state, region, and nation of each species, similar to what the Breeding Bird Survey does annually. Of course, publication and privacy rights of the contributed data will need to be addressed. We may use the Bird Banding Laboratory as a model for this. RECOMMENDED PROTOCOL FOR A REGIONAL NATIONAL COLONIAL WATERBIRD INVENTORY & MONITORING PROGRAM A number of meetings and workshops have been held in recent years to address inventories of waterbirds and their habitats. With the initiation of the new Biological Resources Division of USGS, a new emphasis is being placed on inventory and monitoring of our national biological resources. Coupled with this is a realization that, to be effective, partnerships among state, federal, and non- governmental organizations (NGO) are necessary to complete these large tasks. Because they are top carnivores in the food web and many species are strongly tied to wetlands, waterbirds are consistently identified as an important wildlife component to monitor. Wetlands are often identified at state and federal levels as habitats that are in the greatest jeopardy. Supplementary Information: There is a lot of regional and species variation in the timing of nesting. In the north (ca. 36 N latitude), the nesting inventories should be focused between 1 June and 25 June. In the south, this same period should also apply to the ground-nesters, but for wading birds, at least two visits are probably necessary, one in March, the other in late May-early June. In Florida, with year-round nesting, 3-4 estimates may be necessary to include all species. If at all possible, all colonies in the south should be visited at least twice. Visits should be spaced at least a month apart. Most agencies cannot afford a large-scale inventory of all colonies on an annual basis. Given that, a number of alternatives are possible (see Erwin et al. 1984 Proc. Workshop on Manage. of Nongame Species and Ecol. Commun., Univ. of Kentucky). Assuming funding limitations. our recommendation is as follows: 1.Monitor ground-nesting species (gulls, terns, skimmers, cormorants, pelicans) every 4 years. For species of special concern (endangered, etc.), the major colonies should be censused annually. 2.Monitor tree-nesting (wading birds) every 4 years, the year following the ground-nesting inventory. Annual counts for major colonies of selected species (e.g. Wood Storks). The scheduling should be kept consistent among regions to insure that "metapopulations" are sampled at the same time. If schedules differ among states, interpretation of trends over regions becomes problematic. For example, some data exist to show that Roseate, Common and Least Terns move among colonies in New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts. Thus, New York (Long Island) and southern New England states should form a regional unit when censusing. Other areas form natural units, such as Chesapeake Bay (Maryland and Virginia) and western Gulf of Mexico (Texas-Louisiana). Geographic Description: Focusing on coastal areas, starting with Great Lakes, Atlantic, Gulf and West Coast, not Alaska. Methodology: Predominantly ground census methods used, limited aerial census methods. Many papers have been published regarding census methods for seabirds, fewer for wading birds. It is widely recognized that the total number of breeding pairs at a colony in a given breeding season is the desired value to be estimated. This value is often elusive because of the non-synchronous breeding of many species at a colony (e.g., tropical populations are much more protracted than are arctic populations in nesting), the crypticity of nests (e.g. crevices), or sometimes simply the large size of the colony. The desire to achieve accuracy may come at the cost of disturbance. Bibby et al. (1992, Bird Census Techniques, Academic Press Ltd) for instance recommend plot sample methods but caution investigators to limit visits to a tern colony to 20 min. We present our recommendations for censusing various groups, keeping in mind that cost and time are usually limiting factors for most states. Most of this information has been published previously (Erwin 1979 USFWS OBS publ., Erwin 1985 Trans. NE Fish & Wildl. Conf.). 1.Alcids, petrels, and "true seabirds" - Because they are represented in only a small number of states, the reader is referred directly to Nettleship (1976), Birkhead and Nettleship (1980), and Bibby et al. (1992). In most cases, monitoring small plots for nests is recommended, with densities then extrapolated to the entire colony area to estimate breeding populations. 2.Gulls - Colonies can be located easily by fixed-wing aircraft and estimates of small colonies (<300) can be made from the air where the habitat is fairly open. For larger colonies, ground estimates can be made relatively rapidly by having several counters flushing nesting birds while walking through the colony. The total number of gulls estimated in the air can then be used as a rough estimate of "nesting pairs" since, during the day, roughly one adult is present per nest (Erwin l979). If more detailed data are desired at any colonies, plots ranging to 20 X 20 m may be desirable, depending on the nest density (Bibby et al. 1992). Mark-recapture methods (Lincoln-Peterson) can also be used to estimate the accuracy of the nest counts (Erwin l979). 3.Cormorants - Because they are black and produce a white guano background, cormorants can be easily photographed from fixed wing aircraft with a 35 mm B&W film camera. If aircraft are not available, conducting a ground count can be done either by estimating numbers flushing from the ground (or trees), or by estimating the number of birds after they land in the water near the colony. Because they fly in lines, they are easier to estimate than many other seabirds. 4.Terns, Brown Pelicans, and Black Skimmers - Some species such as the large Royal and Sandwich Tern can be counted from aerial photos, along with skimmers. However, not all sites are nesting colonies; sometimes skimmers roost on sites that appear to be colonies from aircraft. Therefore, we recommend ground estimates of large colonies (>200) and direct nest counts for smaller colonies. Because the large terns and Brown Pelicans nest on the ground in the open, counts of incubating birds can often be made from a vehicle or on foot using a scope. This has the advantage of avoiding disturbance and egg loss to avian predators such as Fish Crows. For the small and intermediate-size terns, we recommend using the adult estimate as the estimated number of breeding pairs, since most attempts to correlate numbers of nests and adults converge at about 1.0, although there may be variation by time of day, season, or colony. For Least Terns and Gull-billed Terns, colonies are usually small and nesting can often be protracted through the season. Direct nest counts should be attempted and 2-3 visits may be necessary from June into July. Using the 1:1 adult to nest ration usually still holds. Arguing over the appropriate "correction factors" is probably a minor source of variation in the overall program. Consistency, especially within each state, is the most important element in any monitoring program. 5.Wading birds a. Great Blue Herons - Because they are so widespread, they are a species being monitored at a number of locations. We recommend nest counts from photographs in the early Spring before leaves come out in the northern parts of the U.S. (early to mid-April). Ground counts can also be done with more difficulty. Nest trees should be individually marked and numbers of nests recorded. This should be done after the young begin to hatch, both to help locate nests from the debris on the ground near the trees, and to reduce disturbance at the site. b. Wood Storks - Because of their Endangered status, effort should be made to estimate rather precisely the number of nests in a colony. This can sometimes be done from fixed-wing aircraft, but usually ground censuses are needed. Because storks depend on water level conditions, colonies may shift; therefore, extensive surveying may be needed using a stratified random survey design. Simply returning to previously-used sites may result in a bias in trends. c. Mixed heronries of intermediate-sized herons - Most heronries have several or more species. Because the eggs of many species are indistinguishable, estimating exact numbers of nests can be difficult. We recommend that, for small heronries (<100 nests), a nest count be attempted but time limited to 30 min. To "assign" the nests to different species in a mixed colony, estimate the number of each species flushing from the colony. For larger colonies, we recommend that several censusers enter the colony to flush birds, while 2 or more observers remain outside to estimate numbers by species. It may be necessary to divide up the species by observer. We recommend estimating Black-crowned Night-Herons and ibises first, since these are the first to flush from the colony. On average, we estimate one adult equals one nest for most wader species. 6.General Comments - If a state is so large that a complete inventory cannot be achieved in a given year, it is best to conduct a census of the large colonies at a minimum. Because some of the site dynamics will be lost, we recommend that 2-3 other areas (e.g. counties) be thoroughly censused to determine the degree of site turnover (Erwin et al. 1984, Erwin 1985). These could even be done in years other than the one devoted to the large-colony effort. The comment highlighted above under Wood Storks needs to be reiterated: simply returning year after year to previously occupied sites leads to a dangerous bias. A carefully developed survey is needed to identify new sites that may develop as well as revisiting old sites. Census techniques. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, florida, colonial waterbirds, atlantic coast, arctic, ohio, texas, aves, gulf coast, georgia, north america, delaware, massachusetts, california, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, new hampshire, north carolina, alabama, terrestrial ecosystems, louisiana, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, pennsylvania, south carolina, atlantic, conservation, minnesota, ocean, islands, animal, west coast, oregon, virginia, geographic region, washington, coastal, usa, usgs, continent, maryland, illinois, chordata, birds, wetlands, procellariiformes, rhode island, wading birds, seabirds, united states of america, lakes, wisconsin, polar, maine, michigan, great lakes, earth science, connecticut, ceos, new york, ciconiiformes - herons, ibises, egrets, storks, procellariiformes - true seabirds petrels, guillemots, shearwaters, charadriiformes - gulls, terns, skimmers, alcids, pellicaniiformes - pelicans and cormorants, mississippi, indiana, 
TITLE: ERS-1 2 Radar Altimeter Ocean Geoid Producs. ABSTRACT: The Oceanic Geoid is a digital data set consisting of a global set of point values of geoid heights with respect to a particular reference ellipsoid. The heights are provided for the nodes of a regular equiangular geographically Earth fixed grid. During the ERS-1 2 mission there are different updates of the product. Every time that a new stationary sea surface height model (ERS.ALT.SSH) is available, a new geoid product, containing all available level 2 altimeter data, is generated. Product characteristics: ---------- Spatial Coverage: global Spatial Resolution: grid spacing 30', corresponding to a spatial distance of some 56 km at the equator. Time Coverage: product will cover a time period that is as long as the acquisition period of level 2 records available at D-PAF. Reference System: the reference ellipsoid and the normal gravity field, the geoid heights refer to, are those of the wgs84 Time Rate of Generation: the ocean geoid is generated every 6 months. ---------- The Ocean Geoid was produced for the first time when 6 months of level 2 altimeter data for the 35 day repeat cycle were available. To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface, sea surface topography, esa, esrin, mediterranean sea, global ocean, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, ra, sea surface height, ocean, geoid, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Weather data at the Great Wall station, Antarctica during the 21st CHINARE in 2004. ABSTRACT: The antarctic Great Wall weather station of China, which was set up in 1985, is located on King George Island, its station number is 89058. The Great Wall weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time 01,07,13,19),and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items includes clouds, visibility, weather phenomenon, wind direction, wind speed, temperature, humidity, air pressure, sunlight, soil temperature, precipitation etc. And now, it also does site weather forecast for science research. This dataset is data of 2004.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, wind profiles, air temperature, clouds, precipitation, amd, cn, humidity, air quality, polar, visibility, fixed observation stations, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, antarctica, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, amd, geographic region, aws, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Global GPS Satellite Clock Corrections. ABSTRACT: GPS (Global Positioning System) satellite clock corrections are computed from observational data and final GPS satellite ephemerides and are typically available 3 to 6 days after the observations are made. The clock corrections can be applied to pseudo-range (code) measurements from a single receiver and can obtain positioning accuracy at the one metre level depending on the GPS receiver characteristics. The corrections are archived in ASCII format at 30-second intervals and can be interpolated (e.g. one second data) without degrading positioning accuracies.Used with the GPSPACE GPS point positioning program and the Precise GPS Satellite Ephemerides, to provide Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) accuracies without requiring base station data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, satellite clock corrections, control surveys, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, differential global positioning system, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surveying, eastern hemisphere, reference systems, ephemerides, nova scotia, geodetics, gravity, gps, clocks, canada, cgdi, corrections, canada, new brunswick, southern hemisphere, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, vertical, global, nunavut, equatorial, northwest territories, saskatchewan, yukon territory, canadian active control system, cacs, vertical location, polar, earth science, ceos, dgps, land surface, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, gpspace, prince edward island, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Experiment (AOE) Model Forcing and Data for the GEWEX Cloud System Study Data Integration for Model Evaluation (GCSS-DIME). ABSTRACT: The Arctic Ocean Experiment (AOE) 2001 was a multi-disciplinary program sponsored by the Swedish Polar Research Secretariat in collaboration with several other institutions including the Stockholm University and the NOAA&#039;s Environmental Technologies Laboratory in Boulder Colorado. During a 2-1 2 month period beginning in late-June, 2001, the Swedish Maritime Administration Icebreaker Oden became the host platform for scientists and support personnel from 13 different countries working in the fields of Oceanography, Geology, Ice and Aerosol Physics, Marine Biology, Atmospheric Chemistry and Meteorology. The principal goal of the Atmospheric Program was to enhance understanding about how natural sources of atmospheric aerosols affect climate through impact on the radiation balance. This case study presents data from 5 July 2001 to 26 Aug 2001 and covers a region from 80N to 90N latitude and from 15W to 15E longitude. The data for this experiment is under Working Group 5 (Polar Clouds) of the GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) is to improve the parameterization of precipitating convective cloud systems in global climate models (GCMs) and numerical weather prediction models through an improved physical understanding of cloud system processes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, reason, atmospheric temperature, dmsp 5d-2, f14, surface radiative properties, arctic, cloud precipitable water, visible radiance, dmsp 5d-2, f13, nasa er-2, dmsp 5d-3, f15, precipitation, ncep, thermal properties, noaa-14, ozone abundance, gewex, spectral, engineering, humidity, international satellite cloud climatology project, infrared radiance, rawinsondes, ground-based observations, models, gewex cloud system study data integration for model evaluation, infrared wavelengths, relative humidity, surface pressure, wind speed, gpcp, cloud optical depth, thickness, cloud forcing, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ships, visible wavelengths, ocean, water vapor, global energy and water cycle experiment, limited area models, single column models, geographic region, gcss-dime, tiros operational vertical sounder, altitude, sea level pressure, special sensor microwave, imager, clouds, air temperature, ozone, tovs, geopotential height, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, isccp, cloud top pressure, radiance, surface winds, polar, reflectance, cloud top temperature, earth science, oxygen compounds, land surface, usa, nasa, ssm, i, atmospheric pressure, arctic ocean experiment, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, aoe, nasa earth resources-2, global precipitation climatology project, esip, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 1A Global Area Coverage (GAC), Local Area Coverage (LAC), and Merged LAC (MLAC) Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global satellite measurements by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS acquires approximately 15 pole-to-pole orbital swaths of data per day, and approximately 90% of the ocean surface is scanned every two days. SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The OBPG first processes SeaWiFS Level 0 to Level 1A using l1a_gen, by appending calibration data, navigation data, instrument telemetry information, and selected spacecraft telemetry information to form a Level 1A HDF file that contains raw radiance values for each of the eight SeaWiFS bands. The input Level 0 data used to produce the Level 1A can be of two spatial resolutions - either LAC (Local Area Coverage), which is 1.1 km at nadir, or GAC (Global Area Coverage), which is 1.1 km resolution but with pixels spaced at 4.4km intervals. Four types of Level 1 SeaWiFS data are processed by OBPG: GAC, LAC, HRPT, and MLAC. Of the Level 1 SeaWiFS data, only GAC and MLAC data are distributed via the Ocean Color Web. The Level 1A Global Area Coverage (GAC) product consists of radiance data for all 8 SeaWiFS bands, subsampled at 4.5 km resolution. A single file consists of all the scans in a north-to-south swath (Arctic to Antarctic). The average file size for a single level 1A GAC file is 19.1 MB, with approximately 14 swaths obtained per day. The Level 1A Local Area Coverage (LAC) product consists of radiance data at 1.1 km resolution and is intended for calibration and validation of the sensor and to obtain high resolution data for areas of special interest. The Level 1A High Resolution Picture Transmission (HRPT) product consists of all the data collected at a given High Resolution Picture Transmission (HRPT) ground station during a single overpass. SeaWiFS broadcasts direct downlink data at 1 kilometer resolution. The approximate size of each file is 35 MB, with most stations obtaining two overpasses per day. The Level 1A Merged LAC (MLAC) product contains all available SeaWiFS HRPT and LAC data for a given orbit. This is done by consolidating all SeaWiFS 1-km-resolution data which have been collected by various HRPT stations, as well as the LAC data recorded onboard the spacecraft into Level 1A files on a per orbit basis. Level-1A or Level-2 MLAC data is identical in format to SeaWiFS LAC and HRPT, except that the scan times may be discontinuous due to gaps in the HRPT LAC geographic coverage. For MLAC data, each product contains the best available full-resolution data for a single orbit, without duplication. Browse Level 1 (GAC, LAC and MLAC) data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, visible imagery, arctic, eos, infrared imagery, global, visible radiance, eosdis, earth science information partners program, spectral, engineering, global ocean, sensor counts, reflected infrared, infrared radiance, thermal infrared, polar, near infrared, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, visible wavelengths, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 5-Min L2 Swath 500m (MOD10_L2) contains snow cover and quality assurance (QA) data, latitudes, and longitudes in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 500 m resolution. Version 4 (V004) has two separate snow cover fields: one incorporating the original cloud mask, and another using a less cloud-conservative mask. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to Dec 31, 2006. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, eos, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, northern hemisphere, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, north america, south america, terrestrial hydrosphere, eastern hemisphere, modis, africa, remote sensing, antarctica, earth observing system data information system, global change, snow, climatology, southern hemisphere, amd, geographic region, western hemisphere, swath, continent, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, snow, ice, europe, antarctic, polar, amd, us, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system, snow on ice, esip, 
TITLE: Colville River Delta Landcover Data; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Vector and digital data from the Colville River area in Alaska. Data contains land cover classifications derived from Landsat MSS data, aerial photography, and National Wetlands Inventory (no DEM data). Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cells. Data source is Landsat MSS data (4 records). Storage required varies by storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Subsets and custom formats as well as limited documentation are available. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. covering the area from 70 degrees 15' North to 70 degrees 30' North and from 150 degrees 15' west to 151 degrees 30' west.. KEYWORD: biological classification, terrain elevation, colville river delta, alpine, tundra, digital elevation model, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, mss, dem, rivers, stream habitat, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, mammals, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, vegetation, birds, geology, cameras, wetlands, united states of america, coastal habitat, wildlife, elevation, polar, aircraft, earth science, colville river, ceos, land surface, land resources, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, rivers, streams, endangered species, river, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Upper Kuskokwim River Resource Management Area (BLM); USGS. ABSTRACT: This digital data set contains land cover classifications (for the Upper Kuskokwim River Resource Management Area, Alaska) was derived from Landsat 4 MSS data, and elevation, slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle. Data source is Landsat 4 MSS data and Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data. The data set contains 21 records. Storage required varies by storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Data are available online. General area covered: 634' north to 15657' west to 6515' north to 16053' west. Dataset was developed through a cooperative program between the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the U.S. Geological Survey.. KEYWORD: land management, terrain elevation, alpine, tundra, digital elevation model, arctic, aedd, mss, dem, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, soil classification, models, topography, kuskokwim, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, landcover, vegetation, geology, united states of america, satellite, soils, wildlife, elevation, polar, kuskokwim river, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, wildlife distribution, rivers, streams, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Geochemical Ocean Section Study (GEOSECS) Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, and Mediterranean Radiocarbon Data, CDIAC NDP-027. ABSTRACT: This package contains radiocarbon data from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans obtained during the Geochemical Ocean Section Study (GEOSECS). GEOSECS, initiated in 1971 and coordinated by Scripps Institution of Oceanography, was designed to establish a baseline data base for assessing future chemical changes in the world's oceans and to provide a better understanding of large-scale oceanic transport and mixing processes. During the GEOSECS expeditions, over 2,200 water samples were collected. Samples for carbon-14 were collected at 124 stations, and approximately 18 samples were collected at each station from intervals throughout the water column. The sampling technique and measurement procedure used in the radiocarbon determinations is described in Stuiver et al. (1974). On board the ship, the samples for radiocarbon were water drawn from 270-liter Gerard barrels, and CO2 was extracted following a method derived from Fonselius and Ostlund (1959). The CO2 samples were absorbed in excess NaOH, deposited in well-sealed bottles and sent to laboratories for processing. Delta 14C values are recalculated to a standardized state of isotopic fractionation equivalent to standard wood (del 13C = -25 permil) and are related to activities at the time of sampling. All the radiocarbon, hydrographic, and position data presented in this package have been provided by the Oceanographic Data Facility at Scripps. Data included in this package include the following: position (degrees and minutes), sample number, depth (in meters calculated from density and pressure), potential temperature, salinity, and delta 14C determinations from the University of Miami and the University of Washington. The GEOSECS radiocarbon data were used to establish the gross rate of deep-ocean circulation. Stuiver et al. (1983) summarized these data and concluded that replacement times of the waters below 1,500 meters in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans are, respectively, about 275, 250, and 510 years. These radiocarbon data also reflect the general trend of deep circulation from the Atlantic to the other oceans and are of value in establishing parameters in multidimensional ocean models. All CDIAC numerical data packages include copies of pertinent literature discussing the data, summaries discussing the background, source and scope of the data, as well as applications limitations and restrictions of the data. More information is available from: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov oceans ndp027.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, niskin bottles, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean temperature, equatorial, sea surface, mediterranean sea, marine geochemistry, carbon, ocean tracers, geosecs, vertical location, polar, carbon dioxide, salinity, ocean chemistry, deep ocean circulation, pacific ocean, earth science, geochemical ocean section study, usa, nasa, carbon 14, large scale oceanic transport, ships, ndp-027, ocean, oceans, radiocarbon, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, chemical oceanography, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes air temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp". -. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, antarctica, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: AFI 02 30_01 - The status of dark septate fungi in Antarctic plant and soil communities - Fungal cultures, plant and soil samples (live and frozen) collected from the northern Antarctic Peninsula region in 2002 2003. ABSTRACT: Three plant species, the leafy liverwort Cephaloziella varians and the angiosperms Deschampsia antarctica and Colobanthus quitensis, were sampled from 12 islands across a 1480 km latitudinal gradient from South Georgia through to Adelaide Island. Samples were collected to determine the abundance of dark septate fungi in Antarctic plant and soil communities and the effects of these organisms on plant growth. Where the target species were found in sufficient numbers to allow sampling, it proved possible to collect at least 10 samples of each species. At least 10 soil samples were collected from each site where Deschampsia was found. Plants, with intact roots and soil, were transported back to the UK using cool and frozen stowage. Additionally, intact live plants were transported to the UK in an illuminated cabinet. Seeds of the two key species (Deschampsia antarctica and Colobanthus quitensis) were also collected at Bird Island and South Georgia. As the exact months of the data collection were not provided, and the metadata standard requires a YYYY-MM-DD format, this dataset has been dated as 1st January for start date, and 31st December for stop date.. KEYWORD: biological classification, ecological dynamics, point thomas, backslope, lagoon islands, robert island, byers peninsula, coronation islands, shingle cove, factory cove, deschampsia antarctica, adelaide island, harmony points, rothera point, olivine points, livingston island, roots, biosphere, antarctica, seasonally frozen ground, hurd peninsula, symbiosis, rhizoids, frozen ground, amd, geographic region, continent, mycorrhiza, colobanthus quitensis, lynch island, angiosperms (flowering plants), hannah point, mosses, hornworts, liverworts, coppermine peninsula, potter cove, damoy point, anchorage island, plants, signy, soils, mansfield points, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, dark septate fungi, berntsen point, south shetland islands, fungi, species, population interactions, king george island, south orkney islands, amd, uk, leonie island, grytviken, microbial diversity, dark septate mycelia, nelson island, cephaloziella varians, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 16th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 16th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, earth science, ceos, visible radiance, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Ice Thickness and Surface Elevation, Southeastern Ross Embayment, West Antarctica. ABSTRACT: Ice surface elevation and ice thickness data are available for a portion of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. The investigators utilized a laser altimeter and ice-penetrating radar mounted to a Twin Otter aircraft to survey the ice sheet. Ice surface elevations and ice thickness data, derived from laser altimetry and radar sounding results, are available in ASCII format via ftp. These data are a result of the Corridor Aerogeophysics of the Southeastern Ross Transect Zone (CASERTZ) experiments of the 1990s. The CASERTZ geophysical surveys were aimed at understanding geological controls on ice streams of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, ultimately to help assess the potential for ice sheet collapse. Blankenship et al. (2001) used ice surface elevations and ice thicknesses (reported here) to calculate driving stresses across the ice sheet and thus to identify regions of rapid basal movement by ice streams.. KEYWORD: nsidc, support office for aerogeophysical research, continent, wais, altimeters, ice surface elevation, aerogeophysics, agdc, west antarctic ice sheet, surface morphology, usa, noaa, west antarctica, ice thickness, casertz, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice sheet thickness, airborne radar sounding, polar, amd, us, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, corridor aerogeophysics of the southeastern ross transect zone, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, radio detection and ranging, airborne laser altimeters, ice streams, subglacial topography, radar, ice sheets, airborne laser altimetry, ice depth, thickness, soar, amd, geographic region, nsidc-0099, ross embayment, radar echo sounders, 
TITLE: Rawinsonde data (atmospheric soundings) from the Weddell Sea, Denmark Strait and Baltic Sea (1989-). ABSTRACT: Rawinsonde soundings have been made during several expeditions for atmospheric boundary layer structure studies. Vaisala RS80-15N and RS80-15G radiosondes and DigiCORA Rawinsonde Set MW11.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, baltic sea experiment, acsys-absis, amd, fi, denmark strait, air pressure, finnarp, radiosondes, nordic world ocean circulation experiment, weddell sea, rawinsondes, baltic sea, fram strait, polar, nordic-woce, acsys atmospheric boundary layer and sea ice interaction study, southern ocean, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, moisture, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, acsys, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, the fram strait cyclone experiment, ocean, framzy, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, arctic climate system study, finnish antarctic research program, baltex, 
TITLE: NSCAT scatterometer global 25km sigma-0 and ocean winds (Dunbar); Product #084. ABSTRACT: This product provides two data sets from NSCAT, the NASA Scatterometer. The two data sets in this product are the Earth-located radar backscatter (sigma-0), and vector wind measurements, collocated in 25 km x 25 km wind vector cells. The selected wind vector is flagged. Backscatter measurements are provided globally over land, ice and oceans. The derived wind vector solutions (all ambiguities) and the selected wind vector are only available over oceans. The data are organized in a swath-based format, with each record consisting of a cross-track row of 48 wind vector cells (24 on each side of the satellite subtrack). Each record contain a number of variables, sigma-0's and related information, such that investigators can re-retrieve the winds using their own model function should they wish. Each file covers one NSCAT revolution and typically consists of 1624 data records. This product is also referred to as the 'high resolution merged geophysical data product'. This is the only NSCAT data product that contains global sigma-0 data.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, arctic, sea surface, spectral, engineering, baltic sea, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, nasa, jpl, oceanesip, backscatter, antarctica, wind vector ambiguities, atmospheric winds, nscat, earth observing system data information system, ocean, selected wind vector, south pacific ocean, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, continent, adeos-i, north atlantic ocean, radar backscatter, global, eosdis, scatterometer, advanced earth observing satellite-i, mediterranean sea, earth science information partners program, ocean backscatter, scatterometers, surface winds, bering sea, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, global sigma-0, radar, north sea, esip, atlantic ocean, sigma-0, nasa scatterometer, 
TITLE: Monthly average polar sea-ice concentration. ABSTRACT: The purpose of this data set is to provide paleoclimate researchers with a tool for estimating the average seasonal variation in sea-ice concentration in the modern polar oceans and for estimating the modern monthly sea-ice concentration at any given polar oceanic location. It is expected that these data will be compared with paleoclimate data derived from geological proxy measures such as faunal census analyses and stable-isotope analyses. The results can then be used to constrain general circulation models of climate change. This data set represents the results of calculations carried out on sea-ice-concentration data from the SMMR and SSM I instruments. The original data were obtained from the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC). The data set also contains the source code of the programs that made the calculations. The objective was to derive monthly averages for the whole 13.25-year series (1978-1991) and to derive a composite series of monthly averages representing the variation of an average year. The resulting file set contains monthly images for each of the polar regions for each year, yielding 160 files for each pole, and composite monthly averages in which the years are combined, yielding 12 more files. Averaging the images in this way tends to reduce the number of grid cells that lack valid data; the composite averages are designed to suppress interannual variability. Also included in the data set are programs that can retrieve seasonal ice-concentration profiles at user-specified locations. These nongraphical data retrieval programs are provided in versions for UNIX, extended DOS, and Macintosh computers. Graphical browse utilities are included for the same computing platforms but require more sophisticated display systems. The data contained in this data set are derived from the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) and Special Sensor Microwave  Imager (SSM I) data produced by the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) at the University of Colorado in cooperation with the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The basic data come from satellites of the U.S. Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program. NSIDC distributes three collections of sea- ice-concentration grids on CD-ROM: data from the Nimbus-7 SMMR (October 25, 1978 through August 20, 1987) are provided on volume 7 of the SMMR Polar Data series (NASA, 1992); data from the SSM I are provided on two separate volumes, covering the periods from July 9 of 1987 to December 31 of 1989, and from January 1 of 1990 through December 31 of 1991, respectively. The NASATEAM data from revision 2 of the SSM I CD-ROM's were used to create the present data set. SMMR images were collected every 2 to 3 days, whereas SSM I data are provided in daily ice-concentration grids. Apart from a number of small gaps (5 or fewer days) in the record, the only long period for which no data are available is December 3 of 1987 through January 12 of 1988, inclusive. As ancillary data, the ETOPO5 global gridded elevation and bathymetry data (Edwards, 1989) were interpolated to the resolution of the NSIDC data; the interpolated topographic data are included. The images are provided in three formats: Hierarchical Data Format (HDF), a flexible scientific data format developed at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications; Graphics Interchange Format (GIF); and Macintosh PICT format. The ice- concentration grids are distributed by NSIDC in HDF format.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, sea ice concentration, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, global change climate history program, sea-ice concentration, ocean, sea ice, oceanography, oceans, amd, geographic region, present, total sea ice concentration, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea ice age, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: JERS-1 data from Eurimage. ABSTRACT: The Japanese Earth Resources Satellite was launched in February 1992. It carries a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) instrument (L-band) and a 7 band optical sensor package covering the near infrared and shortwave infrared region of the spectrum. Both sensors have a ground resolution of 18 m. The satellite has a repeat cycle of 44 days. Eurimage distributes data acquired from ESA stations at Fucino, Tromso and O'Higgins from 1993, thus providing coverage of Europe and Antarctica.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, solid earth, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, surface radiative properties, mid-latitude, optical sensor, ecological dynamics, arctic, western asia, short wavelength infrared radiometer, rivers, stream habitat, land surface temperature, thermal properties, snow cover, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, marine habitat, petroleum, terrestrial hydrosphere, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, antarctica, metamorphic rocks, sedimentation, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, ocean, middle east, land temperature, erosion, biomass burning, rocks, minerals, amd, swir, geographic region, indian ocean, glaciers, continent, turbidity, thermal inertia, visible imagery, natural resources, jers-1, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, infrared imagery, clouds, amd, int, wetlands, mediterranean sea, vnir, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, soils, reflected infrared, snow, ice, europe, fire ecology, polar, japanese earth resources satellite-1, southern ocean, erosion, sedimentation, cloud types, asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, igneous rocks, usa, nasa, rivers, streams, visible and near infrared radiometer, atlantic ocean, eurasia, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: Methane Flux Measurements, Happy Valley, AK, 1994. ABSTRACT: This data set contains CH4 (methane) flux and related measurements taken at the Happy Valley Flux Study Site in northern Alaska during the summer of 1994. Sampling was conducted to test use of a laser sensor on a portable eddy correlation tower by assessing its practicality for sampling in remote flux studies. The flux-related variables measured were: wind direction and speed, friction velocity, air temperature, C02, H20, sensible and latent heat, and CO2 and CH4 flux. The Webb-Pearman-Leuning correction was applied to both the CO2 and CH4 fluxes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, laii-sger, alpine, tundra, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, north america, carbon, alaska, humidity, thermometers, happy valley, ground-based observations, arctic system science data coordination center, opp9415481, office of polar programs, national science foundation, light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation, terrestrial ecosystems, opp-9415481, anemometers, biosphere, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, atmospheric water vapor, co2 flux, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ch4 analyzer, sger, water vapor, methane, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, methane flux, arcss, laii, vegetation, lasers, carbon flux, usa, nsf, united states of america, arcss108, soils, heat flux, surface winds, polar, vertical location, carbon dioxide, laii, earth science, ceos, land surface, adcc, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, national science foundation, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Weekly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Data Correlating the Shallow GISP2 Dust Profile with the Wolf Sunspot Number Series. ABSTRACT: These data were collected for a research project that utilized the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2 (GISP2) ice core. The project sought evidence of an 11-year sunspot cycle and whether the cycle correlated with dust that had been transported by global atmospheric circulation to the summit of Greenland and incorporated into the ice sheet. The dust profile was measured along the top 120 m of the GISP2 B-core using laser-light scattering (LLS) from meltwater. The profile has been dated using the established B-core depth-age scale and ranges from 1597 to 1988 A.D. It contains an average of 13 samples per year. There are significant gaps from 1698 to 1711 and from 1719 to 1727 A.D. where the ice was previously heavily sampled and therefore unavailable for analysis. Based on previous evidence that the GISP2 deep (>1600 m) dust profile contains solar-type variability, investigators correlated the shallow dust profile with the Wolf Sunspot Number (SSN) series. The period under investigation ranges from 1752 to 1988 A.D. This research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9711609.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, continent, laser light scattering, arcss, gisp2, aerosols, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, arctic system science, gisp2, greenland, particulate matter, usa, nsf, north america, solar activity, wolf sunspot number, greenland summit, ground-based observations, polar, shallow dust profile, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, sunspot cycle, arcss113, lls, laser-light scattering, sun-earth interactions, ice core records, sunspots, ice core, geographic region, dust, ash, smoke, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Canadian Active Control Point (ACP) Observational Data. ABSTRACT: Canadian Active Control Point (ACP) observational data consists of dual-frequency calibrated satellite code and carrier phase observations derived from continuous tracking of GPS satellites at 30-second intervals. Data are archived daily in RINEX (Receiver Independent Exchange) format (version 2). Station files contain data collected over a 24-hour period (0:00:00 to 23:59:30 GPS Time). There are twenty-two ACP sites across Canada. Each ACP site is equipped with a high precision, dual frequency, GPS receiver and an atomic frequency standard. Temperature, pressure and humidity data are also collected at selected ACP sites.To provide improved GPS positioning capability for the Canadian surveying and geophysical community, as well as other spatial referencing needs. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, active control point, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, nad83csrs, british columbia, vertical, nunavut, differential global positioning system, northwest territories, acp, boundary surveys, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, satellite, yukon territory, csrs, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, dgps, land surface, gps, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, rinex, 
TITLE: Alaskan Geologic Field Notebooks; USGS, Anchorage. ABSTRACT: These notebooks are the original field records of geologic observations made by USGS geologists working in Alaska. They contain field stations, sample numbers, rock types and descriptions, terrain conditions and outcrop sketches. Some also report topographic measurements, daily weather, and camp life. A few personal diaries of the early explorers are preserved. The notebooks may be viewed by written requests or appointment only. Access to certain materials may be restricted for non-government employees. Microfilm for these records is stored in Menlo Park, California. The data consists of 3,600 notebooks.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, continent, esdd, terrain elevation, arctic, field notebooks, aedd, geology, surface roughness, united states of america, north america, alaska, rock types, terrain, polar, idn_node gsfc, usgs, gd, anchorage, outcrops, erosion, sedimentation, atmospheric phenomena, topography, earth science, ceos, land surface, igneous rocks, contours, metamorphic rocks, samples, landforms, sedimentary rocks, topographical relief, notebooks, erosion, rocks, minerals, geographic region, usgs, storms, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Radiocarbon Age Data - Eastern, Western and Arctic Canadian Offshore and Selected Lakes. ABSTRACT: Each date is a radiocarbon age determined from Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) sediment samples. Most were analyzed by commercial labs such as Beta and Isotrace although some are from the GSC Radiocarbon Lab in Ottawa. The data set includes all the analytical details and information on the material dated. No assessment of the reliability or significance of the dates is provided.The purpose of this data set of Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) radiocarbon age dates from marine sediment samples is to provide information on carbon age dating and geochronology. The age of seabed material is fundamental to understanding the origin of the sediment and hence to predicting its lateral continuity and behavior. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, davis strait, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, age date, northern hemisphere, freshwater lakes, north america, gulf of maine, geochronology, geochemistry, bay of fundy, sable island gully, sediment, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, north east newfoundland shelf, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, ocean, canada, arctic archipelago, halifax harbour, coastal - eastern canada, rocks, minerals, oceans, radiocarbon, baffin island, scotian shelf, geographic region, western hemisphere, coastal - arctic canada, scotian slope, continent, gcmd, eastern north american continental shelf, coastal - western canada, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, hudson strait, labrador sea, browns bank, marine, lake winnipeg, age determinations, database, united states of america, marine geochemistry, grand banks of newfoundland, baffin bay, gulf of st. lawrence, marine sediments, c-14, vertical location, polar, great lakes, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, emerald basin, flemish cap, labrador shelf, gsc, flemish pass, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic Oscillation (AO) Index Data. ABSTRACT: The University of Washington Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean (JISAO) offers an Arctic Oscillation (AO) Index dataset. The Arctic Oscillation (AO) is defined as the leading EOF of Northern Hemisphere sea-level pressure anomalies poleward of 20N, weighted by area (Thompson and Wallace, 1998). The following indices are generated by projecting various anomaly fields onto the structure of the &AO&, defined here as the leading EOF of SLP poleward of 20N based on all months January 1958 to April 1997. All units are arbitrary. &http:  ao.atmos.colostate.edu  Data AO_TREN_NCEP_Jan1899Current.ascii& AO_TREN_NCEP_Jan1899Current.ascii MONTHLY INDEX January 1899 to present. Found by projecting the AO pattern onto SLP anomalies back to Jan 1899. Index starts Jan 1899, ends June 2002. Index values 1899-December 1957 are based on data described in Trenberth and Paolino (1980). Index values January 1958 to current are from the NCEP NCAR Reanalysis. (Reference: Thompson and Wallace 2000) &http:  ao.atmos.colostate.edu  Data AO_SATindex_JFM_Jan1851March1997.ascii& AO_SATindex_JFM_Jan1851March1997.ascii MONTHLY INDEX BASED ON SAT DATA. January-March monthly-mean values from January 1851 to March 1997. The first column is the time axis in years (and fractions of years: i.e. 1958+0 3 would be Jan 1958, 1958+2 3 is March 1958, etc). The second column is the index values. In this case the index values are the expansion coefficient time series of the pattern of SAT anomalies associated with the AO. SAT data provided by P. D. Jones (Jones 1994) from the CRU. (Reference: Thompson and Wallace 2000) Additional AO Index data are available from: &http:  www.atmos.colostate.edu ao Data ao_index.html& and &http:  jisao.washington.edu data aots &. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, northern hemisphere annular mode, sea level pressure, climate index, arctic, earth science, usa, nasa, arctic oscillation, climate indicators, ao, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, northern hemisphere, climate indices, geographic region, oscillations, teleconnections, climate change, 
TITLE: Quaternary studies in Murchisonfjorden area (Finland). ABSTRACT: Results from glacial geological, sedimentological and chronological studies in the southern Murchisonfjorden area, Nordaustlandet. Field data include reconnaissance mapping, striae measurements and detailed logging of vertical sections along cliff-face outcrops few metres high adjacent to the present-day shoreline. Combined with OSL and AMS age determinations, these data provide evidence of three successive Weichselian sequences, each represented by the deposition of till followed by the accumulation of shallow marine deposits.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, kinnvika, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, northern europe, climate indicators, glaciers, ice sheets, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ipy, scandinavia, air temperature indices, international polar year, norway, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Heinrich Event Slide Set. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: By understanding past climate variability, scientists hope to understand the course of future changes in the earth's climate system. This slide set outlines past climate variability by reconstructing abrupt climate changes in the Late Pleistocene. The set contains a comprehensive text and accompanying color photos of icebergs, iceberg-rafted debris in marine sediment cores, and laboratory techniques with sediment cores. Detailed graphics and discussion of Heinrich events, their causes, and their climatic significance are also included. This set would be appropriate for a college level audience and could be used as a comprehensive educational tool for studying current issues in oceanography and the implications of natural climate variability from the past to the future. Set also includes a glossary and further reading lists. PURPOSE: Paleoclimatic Education. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sediment corers, paleo start date cc10-00-00, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, earth science information partners program, ocean, lake records, isotopes, paleo stop date, microscopes, quaternary, g3os, , polar, earth science, ceos, coring devices, phanerozoic, drilling platforms, ships, ocean, gosic, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, oxygen isotopes, sediments, 
TITLE: Level 2.5 daily DMSP SSM I satellite wind speeds with assigned directions (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov products product079.html ). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com  ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao  ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used ( http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata  ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR ( http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets  ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. The Level 2.5 products are derived from the Level 3.0 gridded VAM analyses by assigning directions daily to the wind speed observations for each microwave sensor (DMSP SSM I, AMSR-E, TRMM TMI). Data products are stored in binary "bytemap" files to parallel the original satellite data files from RSS. All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data distributed in NetCDF format ( http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf  ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "f08_20040101_v10l25flk.nc.gz" designates a level 2.5 (l25) data set containing DMSP SSM I satellite wind speeds with assigned directions for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, dmsp 5d-2, f14, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, dmsp 5d-3, f15, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, global ocean, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, discover, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, indian ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f15, 
TITLE: ARCTIC: Campaign in the Arctic Glacial Ocean. ABSTRACT: In English: They were done 11 stations: five along the transect between the Norwegian coast and Bjornoya island (Bjornoya transect), five along the transect to the South of Spitzbergen (South Cap transect) and the most northern station. Samples were taken for the following determinations: -Diversity of eukaryotic picoplankton Samples filtered by GF F filters for the determination of the chlorophyll a, and samples collected on 0.6m pore-size for the determination of the picoplankton by epifluorescence microscopy. Samples filtered on 0.2m and 0.6m pore-size to carry out FISH with stramenopilos probes. Samples pre-filtered on 3m pore-size and collected in filters on 0.2m pore-size for the nucleic acids of the picoplankton. Samples to make enrichment cultivations of heterotrophic flagellates. During the campaign 3 experiments were done and all the picoplankton samples by epifluorescence were counted. -Picoplankton comparison by means of microscopy and HPLC. Samples filtered by GF F filters to analyzed the pigments by HPLC. Samples of 250 ml filtered with phormol-hexamina to determinate the microplankton by invested microscopy The following was also sampled: Filtered samples and dried off to the air to examine the coccolithophore algae by electron microscopy. Samples filtered by GF F filters and frozen for the determination of the sulphur particulated organic compounds DMSP and DMSO. En Espaol: Se ocuparon 11 estaciones: cinco a lo largo del transecto entre la costa noruega y la Isla de Bjornoya (transercto Bjornoya), cinco a lo largo del transecto al sur de Spitzbergen (transecto South Cap) y la estacion mas septentrional. Se tomaron muestras para las siguientes determinaciones: -Diversidad de picoplancton eucariotico. Muestras filtradas por filtros GF F para la determinacion de la clorofila a, y muestras por filtros de 0,6m de poro para la determinacion del picoplancton por microscopia de epifluorescencia. Muestras filtradas sobre filtros de 0,2m y 0,6m de poro para la realizacion de FISH con sondas de estramenopilos. Muestras prefiltradas por filtros de 3m de poro y recogidas en filtros de 0,2m de poro para los acidos nucleicos de la comunidad picoplanctonica. Muestras para realizar cultivos de enriquecimiento de flagelados heterotrofos. Se realizaron tres experimentos durante la campaa y se contaron todas las muestras de picoplancton por epifluorescencia. -Comparacin del fitoplancton mediante microscopia y HPLC. Muestras filtradas por filtros GF F para el analisis de pigmentos por HPLC. Muestras de 250 ml filtradas con formol-hexamina para la determinacin del microplancton por microscopia invertida. Se recogieron ademas: Muestras filtradas y secadas al aire para examinar las algas cocolitoforales por microscopia electronica de barrido. Muestras filtradas por filtros GF F y congeladas para la determinacin de los compuestos orgnicos de azufre particulados DMSP y DMSO.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, eukarytic organism, niskin bottles, arctic, es, arctic, haptophytes, scandinavia, plants, phylogenetic diversity, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, europe, coccolithophores, polar, ocean chemistry, pigments, picoeukaryotes, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, northern europe, biosphere, fluorescence microscopy, ships, ocean, flagellates, fluorometers, norway, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 19th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 19th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, visible radiance, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: GLDAS CLM Land Surface Model L4 Monthly 1.0 x 1.0 degree V001 (GLDAS_CLM10_M) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Common Land Model (CLM) V2.0 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is monthly. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency&#039;s AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS CLM model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 1 Surface pressure Pa 11 Near surface air temperature K 32 Near surface wind magnitude m s 51 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 57 Total Evapotranspiration kg m^2 s 65 Snow Water Equivalent kg m^2 71 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 85 Average layer soil temperature K 86 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 99 Snowmelt kg m^2 s 111 Net Shortwave Radiation W m^2 112 Net Longwave Radiation W m^2 121 Latent Heat Flux W m^2 122 Sensible Heat Flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average Surface Temperature K 155 Ground Heat Flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface Runoff kg m^2 s 235 Surface Runoff kg m^2 s There are 10 vertical levels each for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2002. ABSTRACT: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager is to monitor auroral displays at certain wavelength at nearly 180 degrees filed of view. The data is digitized images recorded on DVD-R with two copies; one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between these two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, ccd imager, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, hamamatsu ccd camera, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Seasonal Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: H. Dissemination Area Reference Maps, by non-tracted Census Agglomeration, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The set of Dissemination Area Reference Maps by Non-tracted Census Agglomeration covers the smaller census agglomerations that are not part of the census tract program. Each map in the set covers one census agglomeration (CA) and shows the boundaries and codes of dissemination areas within that CA. The maps also show the boundaries of census subdivisions (municipalities), as well as urban areas, and representative points for designated places. The maps include background information such as rivers, lakes, railroad tracks and provincial boundaries, and other significant features. There are approximately 170 maps in this set?generally two maps per census agglomeration. Some maps include insets to show detail for the congested areas. These insets appear on the main map where possible, but in some cases they appear on a second map sheet. The maps vary in scale and size; the maximum map dimensions are approximately 91 cm by 101 cm (36 inches by 40 inches). A reference guide is available (92F0146GIE). Note: Dissemination area reference maps are also available by census tract for large urban centres?census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations (92F0146XCB, 92F0146XIB, 92F0146XPB) and by census division for areas outside census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations (92F0148XCB, 92F0148XIB, 92F0148XPB). Together, the three sets of dissemination area maps cover all of Canada. Catalogue number for free internet usage is: 92F0147XIB01000 Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0147XCB01000 Catalogue number for print-on-demand is: 92F0147XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The maps are designed to enable users to identify the general location and boundaries of the geographic areas for which 2001 Census data are available. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, terminology, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, rural areas, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, urban areas, quebec, alberta, data quality, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: NRSC Regional Marine Geoid. ABSTRACT: The NRSC's Regional Geoid Product offers the most accurate satellite derived measurement of the marine geoid, providing an inexpensive base dataset for rapid geophysical screening of off-shore sedimentary basins. The product consists of corrected mean sea surface heights referenced to an Earth Ellipsoid. Vertical accuracy's of better than 10cm are achieved through the application of NRSC's waveform-retracking process. Accurate measurement of the marine geoid is important for exploration companies who use the information to derive gravitational fields over offshore basins. These are used to map potential oil-bearing structures beneath the ocean floor. The geoid is generated from Altimeter data acquired by the European Space Agency's ERS-1 satellite, from both the 35-day repeat cycle phase or the 168-day repeat cycle (geodetic phase). The unique retracked dataset produced by the NRSC enables the derivation of precise high frequency geoid information for the first time. Features of the 35-day repeat cycle product include: > Five repeat orbits are used to reduce errors > Vertical accuracy is better than 10cm > Along track resolution is 7km > Across track resolution at 60 degrees latitude is 39km. This is four times more dense than available from previous altimeter-derived datasets such as the Haxby global geoid > Data for the Arctic basin is available for the first time Features of the 168-day repeat cycle product include: > Along track resolution is 2km (resolutions up to 0.5km are available, however the location accuracy of the altimeter sensor is limited to 2km) > Across track resolution at 60 degrees latitude is 4km > Vertical accuracy is around 10cm The Regional Geoid Product consists of geoid undulation heights referenced to a long wavelength geoid model. These are available as a series of points along the original satellite tracks or as a regular gridded dataset. Products are available 'off-the-shelf' for major sedimentary basins including: North East Europe, the Falklands shelf, South East Asia and the Barents and Kara Seas. Products for any other area between 80N and 80S can be generated on demand. The data is supplied in digital form on Exabyte, CD-ROM or CCT. Further details and pricing are available from the National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC).. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, natural resources, altimeters, radar altimeters, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, marine geophysics, global, european remote sensing satellite-2, geology, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface topography, esa, esrin, oil, marine sediments, radar altimeter-2, polar, ra-2, earth science, ceos, ra, electrical field, sea surface height, ocean, geomagnetism, marine gravity field, geoid, oceans, geographic region, idn_node esrin, uk, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Standard Mapped Product Suite. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color and sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color and SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. SST processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit (SST)   8-bit (Ocean Color), two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI ocean color products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Canadian Ice Service Daily Analysis Ice Charts. ABSTRACT: This series contains daily ice charts produced at Canadian Ice Service (CIS) primarily based on satellite imagery and ice reconnaissance flights; these charts are used for shipping and tactical activities.To provide ice conditions for shipping and tactical support. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster, vector. Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Albers Conical Equal Area Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, alaskan coast, nunavut, northwest territories, sea surface, united states of america, northern hemisphere, ice types, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, sea ice, spectral, engineering, bering strait, polar, vertical location, queen elizabeth islands, great lakes, nova scotia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, king william island, radar, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, victoria strait, 
TITLE: International Ice Patrol Iceberg Drift Tracks. ABSTRACT: The International Ice Patrol (IIP) tracks, plots and predicts iceberg positions in the North Atlantic Ocean. The IIP area of responsibility is 40 to 52 degrees North, 39 to 57 degrees West. During several years (1977, 1978, 1980, 1983, and 1989) individual icebergs were 'tagged' with buoys developed by the U.S. Coast Guard Research and Development Center. The motion of the icebergs bearing the USCG buoys were then tracked via satellite. Observation periods range from one week to two years depending on the buoy. The data are stored in the National Oceanographic Data Center format for drifting buoys (format number 156).. KEYWORD: tiros oceanographic drifter, arctic ocean, polar, icebergs, current meter, drifting buoys, surface drifting buoy, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tod, ceos, usa, noaa, glaciers, ice sheets, surface drifter, ocean, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice buoy, drifting buoy, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua and SeaWiFS Level 3 9KM Seasonal Merged Chlorophyll Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of merged satellite measurements of global ocean chlorophyll data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform, and the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWIFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . SeaWiFS processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html . The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level-3 9 km merged chlorophyll products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods once the refined products for each of the contributing missions are processed. Increased coverage over the single mission product is realized through the merging of the two data sets. There is a substantial improvement (> 50%) in coverage at the daily level, decreasing with the increase in the temporal period binned. The MODIS SeaWiFS merged product is generated in essentially two steps. First, the MODIS Level-3 file is reduced in resolution from 4 to 9 km to match the global resolution of the SeaWiFS chlorophyll product. This involves combining the sum and sum squared field values for the (typically) four 4 km bins into the corresponding single 9 km bin. In the second step, the reduced-resolution MODIS file and the corresponding SeaWiFS Level-3 file are combined. Because both input files are at the same 9 km resolution, the summing is performed bin-by-bin. The Standard Mapped Image file that is generated from the merged Level-3 binned file stores scaled 16 bit integer values rather than the usual 8 bit values, giving the user much greater numerical precision. The actual images displayed on the Ocean Color website in PNG format are provided for visual inspection only. Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level 3 Merged Chlorophyll data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov Merged . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: The Atlas of Canada - Glacier Atlas of Canada. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Glacier Inventory Project was initiated in the 1960s as part of Canada's contribution to the International Hydrological Decade (1965-1974) programme for a world inventory of glaciers (Ommanney, 1980), sponsored by Unesco. Basic physical data on Canada's estimated 100,000 glaciers were to be compiled from maps and photographs. This necessitated the adoption of a suitable coding system. In order to establish region and basin identifiers, Canada was subdivided into major basins. In the Arctic, a modification of the coding system developed for polar regions by B.B. Roberts (1963) was used. For mainland Canada, the basin sub-divisions of the Water Survey of Canada were adopted. The Canadian regional identifiers are preceded by * to distinguish the Canadian data set. Subsequent numbers represent the major drainage basins or areas, as follows: *3 - Labrador (Atlantic Ocean), *5 - Nelson River (Hudson Bay), *7 - Slave River (Mackenzie River), *8 - Pacific Ocean, *9 - Yukon River, 11 - Mackenzie District (Arctic Ocean,) 62 - Baffin and Bylot Islands, 64 - High Arctic Islands, 65 - Somerset and Prince of Wales Islands, 67 - Boothia Peninsula, 69 - Victoria and Banks Islands. The original regional numbering system has since been modified by the World Glacier Monitoring Service, in Z?rich, so that Canadian data stored there will not use the same initial alphanumeric codes. Glacier numbers were assigned to individual ice masses by numbering clockwise from the mouth of the basin. Each basin was identified with an alphanumeric code. As this numbering system was the key to all the glacier inventory data, it was decided to publish it in map sheets which could form the basis of a Glacier Atlas of Canada. Separate sheets were printed once the inventory compilation for a particular region had been completed. The maps were prepared initially by photo reduction of a compilation provided by the Glacier Inventory Project. Certain standard procedures were followed to ensure uniformity when seasonal staff were used. All indices were compiled at a scale of 1:250,000 from the 1:50,000 scale inventory work maps. The outline of the final map was drawn on the index using an overlay. The boundary included all glaciers in the basin or basins being shown and as much of the total basin(s) as possible. As all the maps are published in a standard format, the orientation of the map was controlled by the size and shape of the basin(s) and the map frame size. Thus north is not necessarily at the top. The limits were drawn only for those basins for which the glacier numbering was to be shown. Solid lines were used to divide major regions and dashed lines the individual basins. Only the outline of the glaciers is shown, the margin of the ice and the major nunataks. Divides between individual glaciers were omitted. Sufficient hydrography was marked to indicate the direction of flow of most of the glacier melt water. A scribe coat was produced directly from this compilation and all further work was carried out by the Drafting Unit of the Inland Waters Directorate. The Atlas plates were numbered using a decimal system with the first two digits corresponding to the major region and basin. The final digit was a sequential number covering individual maps. Four maps per plate were printed for economy of production. A full list of the maps published and contained in this Atlas is given. The work was begun in the Inland Waters Branch (IWB) which later became a Directorate (IWD) and moved from the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources (EMR) to the Department of the Environment (DOE). In the mid-1970s, publication of this series was suspended. As it is now extremely unlikely that the series can be continued in its present form, a decision was made in 1989 to distribute a few limited-edition bound volumes of those maps already published to selected reference libraries. Sincere thanks are extended to John W. Clarkson and Mary M. Strome who were instrumental in the compilation of most of these maps. The glacier inventory data associated with these glacier numbers and extensive records on many of Canada's other glaciers are kept by the Scientific Information Division, National Hydrology Research Institute, Environment Canada, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7N 3H5. C. Simon L. Ommanney, Saskatoon, March 1989 Atlas of Canada Scanned Map Archives - As limited numbers of the Glacier Atlas of Canada exist, the plates have been scanned and made available to the public through the Atlas of Canada Web site to facilitate access to this valuable reference. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, national atlas, mid-latitude, arctic, british columbia, high arctic islands, nunavut, glacial meltwater, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, yukon territory, bylot island, glacial regions, ice cover, vertical location, polar, glacier inventory project, maps, nelson river, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, alberta, surface water, glacier inventory data, glacial basins, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, perennial ice and snow, baffin island, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, wright valley, lter, precipitation, humidity, soil temperature, radiometers, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, anemometers, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, continent, shortwave radiation, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, lake brownsworth, incoming longwave radiation, radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: Global Archive of Ortho-rectified Landsat Data. ABSTRACT: Recognizing the need to provide high-resolution satellite data to the scientific community, NASA's Commercial Remote Sensing Program Office, has been working to assemble the first wall-to-wall global coverage of ortho-rectified Landsat Thematic Mapper and Multi Spectral Scanner data to support scientific studies. In August of 1998, NASA contracted with MDA (then EarthSat) to produce positionally accurate orthorectified Landsat Thematic Mapper and Multispectral Scanner imagery covering the majority of the Earth's land mass. Scene selection, acquisition, and processing of Landsat data is done by MDA Federal Inc. (http:  www.mdafederal.com). There are two separate product lines developed from the GeoCover Project: 1. EarthSat GeoCover-Ortho (Orthorectified) products are the actual satellite images derived from Landsat TM scenes and are the most accurate, commercially available base maps of the world. 2. EarthSat GeoCover-LC (Land Cover) products consist of a medium resolution land cover database, prepared from consistently orthorectified Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery. The Landsat imagery used to create the GeoCover-Ortho products have been hand selected to provide the lowest cloud cover and highest quality data possible. The Landsat TM imagery are all circa 1990 and have been selected as close to the local peak growing season as possible. The imagery have been collected from the majority of the Landsat foreign ground stations, as well as from the US Government's EROS Data Center. Never before has such a complete collection of high quality Landsat imagery been assembled for processing and analysis. The GeoCover-Ortho image map data sets represents a milestone in the use of Landsat digital imagery to map and study the Earth's surface. For more information see http:  www.mdafederal.com geocover project. KEYWORD: continent, visible imagery, landsat-5, landsat-4, arctic, infrared imagery, western asia, global, mss, greenland, united states of america, global land, north america, mrsid mosaic, south america, spectral, engineering, northern africa, thematic mapper, europe, polar, infrared wavelengths, africa, hawaii, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, iceland, australia, usa, nasa, northern europe, mexico, visible wavelengths, central america, middle east, tm, geographic region, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Atmospheric Pressure. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes atmospheric pressure measurements as recorded by a Vaisala model PTA427 Barometric pressure sensor . The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_pressta.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_pres_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_pres_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, atmospheric pressure measurements, long-term ecological research, barometeric pressure, temperature, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, surface pressure, meteorology, earth science, ceos, barometers, antarctica, atmospheric pressure, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Federal 2-D Densification Network, North of Canada, Level 1. ABSTRACT: Geodetic Survey Division (GSD) provides a horizontal 2-D (NAD83) network of interconnected control surveys with (approximately 13000) monuments spaced 20 to a maximum of 100 km apart for the Yukon Territory, Northwest Territories and Nunavut. These networks are comprised of physically marked survey stations across Canada for which horizontal coordinates are determined. These networks have been established over the past 90 years to provide consistent and accurate basic frameworks within which project-specific surveys may be carried out. The data format of the FED2DNC1 information could be GML (ASCII) or SHAPE. FED2DNC1 information would include geographic and UTM coordinates, orthometric elevation, marker information description, and inspection data.The Horizontal 2-D Network (NAD83) is designed to serve as a 2-D framework of reference for positioning in the North (the geodetic Canadian Spatial Reference System - CSRS). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 (North American Datum 1983) Ellipsoid Name: GRS80 (Geodetic Reference System 1980) Semi-major Axis: 6378137 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222101. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, control surveys, gcmd, mid-latitude, latitude, arctic, vertical, nunavut, northwest territories, boundary surveys, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, csrs, longitude, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, cbn, global positioning system, canada, cgdi, canada, nad83, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, canadian base network, 
TITLE: AVHRR Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 5 km EASE-Grid Composites. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) Polar Pathfinder Twice-Daily 5 km EASE-Grid Composites are a collection of products for both poles, consisting of twice-daily calibrated and gridded satellite channel data and derived parameters. Data include five AVHRR channels, clear sky surface broadband albedo and skin temperature, solar zenith angle, satellite elevation angle, sun-satellite relative azimuth angle, surface type mask, cloud mask, and Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) of acquisition. AVHRR Polar Pathfinder data extend pole ward from 48.4 degrees north and 53.2 degrees south latitudes, from 24 July 1981 through 30 June 2005. Data are in 1-byte and 2-byte integer grid format and are available by FTP. Note: Due to a problem with the NOAA-16 scan motor, all the channel data is shifted sporadically between 2001 and 2005, causing the channels to contain data from another channel; thus, the derived parameters also contain errors during this time-period. See Table 12 in the Error sources section of the guide document for specific dates.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, surface radiative properties, arctic, noaa-16, visible radiance, usa, noaa, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-16, noaa, land surface temperature, thermal properties, noaa-14, noaa-11, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, albedo, thermal infrared, infrared wavelengths, pathfinder, remote sensing, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, skin temperature, brightness temperature, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, land temperature, amd, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, atmospheric radiation, continent, clouds, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, platform characteristics, satellite, snow, ice, avhrr, antarctic, radiance, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, viewing geometry, nasa, noaa-9, cloud amount, frequency, noaa-7, esip, 
TITLE: DMSP SSM I Daily Polar Gridded Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: NSIDC produces daily gridded brightness temperature (Tb) data from orbital (swath) data generated by the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) mounted on the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) F8, F11, and F13 platforms. The gridded brightness temperatures are distributed in polar stereographic projection. SSM I is a seven-channel, four-frequency, orthogonally polarized passive microwave radiometric system. The channels are 19.3 GHz vertical and horizontal, 22.2 GHz vertical only, 37.0 GHz vertical and horizontal, and 85.5 GHz vertical and horizontal. Orbital data for each 24-hour period are mapped to respective grid cells using a simple 'drop in the bucket' sum and average method. 85.5 GHz data are gridded at a resolution of 12.5 km, with all other frequencies at a resolution of 25 km. All SSM I Tb gridded data are stored as scaled 2-byte integers in flat binary arrays and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, earth science information partners program, north america, baffin bay, spectral, engineering, weddell sea, microwave, antarctic, north pacific ocean, gridded data, polar, bering sea, amd, us, southern ocean, nsidc daac, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, remote sensing, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, ssm, i, amundsen sea, passive microwave, brightness temperature, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, ocean, canada, ross sea, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, chukchi sea, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: Predictive Model of Golden Eagle Distribution in Idaho and Montana. ABSTRACT: Because of growing concern in recent years about the status of golden eagle populations in western North America and the need for a more complete understanding of the preferences of this species, we developed a Predictive Model of Golden Eagle Distribution in Idaho and Montana. This preliminary model follows a Resource Selection Functions (RSF) approach for golden eagles and is based on data collected via satellite telemetry from 6 golden eagles tracked in the western U.S from 1996-1998. The initial golden eagle predictive model is done at a relatively low resolution; the dataset includes the predictive layer and was created from 5 different environmental data layers that were originally compiled and published elsewhere. GIS overlays were reformatted and merged from diverse sources (including state GAP programs, USGS, Snake River Field Station, ESRI and other sources). Aspect, slope, river and road distance were derived from the original data layers. All work was completed in ArcView 3.3. For model building we used MARS and CART from Salford Systems.. KEYWORD: year-round use areas, continent, biological classification, habitat, ecological dynamics, arctic, birds, cart, united states of america, north america, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, montana, geographic information system, golden eagle, satellite, idaho, polar, preferences, mars, earth science, resource selection function (rsf), ceos, biosphere, population dynamics, aquila chrysaetos, animals, vertebrates, predictive modeling, species, population interactions, model data, eagle, western united states, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: NIC Arctic and Antarctic Sea Ice Data. ABSTRACT: Note: This product has been replaced by the more comprehensive environmental working Group Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea ice Atlas. ("http:  nsidc.org data G01962.html") Data are digitized weekly sea ice concentration and extent grids for the Arctic (extending to 45 degrees north, 1972 - 1994) and the Antarctic (extending to 50 degrees south, 1973 - 1994). The Arctic data are divided into two sections: Arctic East (90 W - 90 E, centered on the Greenwich meridian) and Arctic West (90 E - 90 W, centered on the International Date Line.) The grids are digitized at the National Climatic Data Center from weekly charts prepared by the Navy NOAA National Ice Center, Suitland. Charts are 1:11.6 million for the Northern Hemisphere, and 1:16 million for the Southern Hemisphere, azimuthal equidistant projection, point of tangency at the pole. The ice edge is accurate to within 5 to 10 km in clear conditions; with extreme cloudiness accuracy may deteriorate to 100 km. Data sources include AVHRR LAC, GAC and HRPT, DMSP OLS (visible and infrared) and SSM I (passive microwave), and aerial reconnaissance from U.S. Navy, Canadian and Danish sources. Weekly gridded data are stored in a WMO standard format called SIGRID.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, continent, bellingshausen sea, sea ice concentration, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea ice extent, labrador sea, usa, noaa, north america, sea ice, baffin bay, weddell sea, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, antarctic, barents sea, north pacific ocean, gridded data, bering sea, polar, amd, us, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, southern ocean, east siberian sea, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, greenland sea, amundsen sea, laptev sea, hudson bay, ocean, canada, ross sea, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, chukchi sea, kara sea, ice concentration, 
TITLE: Greenland Airborne Precision Elevation Survey (GRAPES) Data Collected by NASA's Airborne Topographic Mapper (ATM). ABSTRACT: Ice sheet elevation data are collected over Greenland with NASA's Airborne Topographic Mapper (ATM). The data are known as the Greenland Airborne Precision Elevation Survey (GRAPES). The ATM is a laser altimeter flown on NASA aircraft. The Global Positioning System (GPS) of orbiting satellites is used to navigate the aircraft's autopilot in order to provide precise location information for repeat coverage. The data are collected yearly starting in 1991. The GRAPES data currently available include results from the 1993 mission, with other data to be included soon. Flight trajectory data are available for all years beginning with 1993. The data collected by ATM form baseline measurements of ice elevation of Greenland. The data will be used in conjunction with the future elevation measurements of the Geoscience Laser Altimeter System (GLAS) instrument onboard the ICESat satellite (to be launched in 2001). Changes in ice sheet elevation measurements provide a better understanding of glacial changes that may be due to global climate change. For more information, see http:  science.wff.nasa.gov page 2.html%3F&MMN_position=2:2.html [This summary was derived from the pages of the Observational Science Branch at NASA Wallops Flight Facility. The Observational Science Branch is a division of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Laboratory for Hydrospheric Processes.]. KEYWORD: continent, polar, terrain elevation, altimeters, p-3b orion, lockheed p-3b orion, topography, parca, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, program in arctic regional climate assessment, land surface, usa, nasa, glaciers, ice sheets, greenland, north america, topographical relief, atm, airborne topographic mapper, geographic region, ice elevation, 
TITLE: Meteorological Data from the Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment 1991 (MLML91). ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland in 2822m of water. Data is available from a mooring fielded from April 29-September 6, 1991. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Meteorological Data from this experiment include: 12384 records Sample Rate: 15 minutes Parameters: Air Temperature, Relative Humidity, Barometric Pressure, Sea temperature, East and North Wind Speeds, Shortwave (Solar) Radiation, and Longwave Radiation See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml91 mlml91met.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, air temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, earth science information partners program, humidity, surface winds, meteorological sensors, earth science, solar radiation, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, ocean, buoy position, water vapor, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, atmospheric radiation, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Arctic Environmental Change of the Last Four Centuries. ABSTRACT: Abstract (from the online documentation): A compilation of paleoclimate records from lake sediments, trees, glaciers, and marine sediments provides a view of circum-Arctic environmental variability over the last 400 years. From 1840 to the mid-20th century, the Arctic warmed to the highest levels in four centuries. This warming ended the Little Ice Age in the Arctic and has caused dramatic retreats of glaciers, melting of permafrost and sea-ice, and alteration of terrestrial and lake ecosystems. Although significant warming, particularly after 1920, was likely due to increases in atmospheric trace-gases, the initiation of the warming in the mid-19th century suggests that increased solar irradiance, decreased volcanic activity, and feedbacks internal to the climate system played roles. For graphics and discussion of the data from this paper, see the web site http:  www.ngdc.noaa.gov paleo sciencepub front.htm. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, past global changes, igbp, holocene, arctic, lake ice, usa, noaa, tree-ring records, pages, russia, north america, isotopes, solar activity, sea ice, land records, terrestrial hydrosphere, climate change, surface air temperature, northern europe, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, proxy, lake sediments, global warming, permafrost, canada, lake levels, radiocarbon, oceans, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, tree rings, sediments, climate reconstruction, glaciers, continent, sea ice concentration, cenozoic, vegetation, paleo start date 400 ybp, paleoclimate, greenland, particulate matter, united states of america, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, quaternary, snow, ice, europe, marine sediments, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, solar irradiance, eastern europe, forcing, varve deposits, sun-earth interactions, ice core records, circum-arctic, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Innerhytte Pingo. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 19.1m deep borehole was drilled in the Innerhytte Pingo close to Janssonhaugen. Borehole stratigraphy: 2.5-6m: ice rich (up to 100% ice in layers) 9m: c. 20cm thick ice layer. Less ice outside this layer 11m: c. 20cm thick ice layer. Less ice outside this layer 15-20.5m ice-rich. At least two types of ice (1- transparent, 2- white, opaque). Little fine material.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, adventdalen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Global Ocean Analysis Assimilation. ABSTRACT: This data set is a global assimilation analysis of the ocean using a General Circulation Model of the oceans based on the GFDL MOM2 code to study the ocean's role in climate variability. The assimilation algorithm is an extension of Optimum Interpolation. Winds are provided by a monthly COADS analysis. Surface and subsurface temperature updating is carried out using most historical shipboard and satellite temperature information. The analyses are constructed using the Simple Ocean Data Assimilation (SODA) analysis package. SODA is an application of data assimilation using a forecast model based on GFDL ocean physics driven by observed historical meteorology (winds, heating, and rainfall-evaporation), assimilating historical observations of temperature, salinity, sea level, SST, and surface current. Data available from the LDEO IRI Climate Data Library "http:  ingrid.ldeo.columbia.edu SOURCES .UMD ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, general circulation model, zonal velocity, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, open-source project for a network data access protocol, buoys, heating rate, sea surface topography, gcm, meridional velocity, alt (topex), global ocean, sea surface temperature, models, wind stress, drifting buoys, topex, poseidon, atmospheric winds, ships, ocean, climatology, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, expendable bathythermographs, noaa poes, xbt, heat content, earth science information partners program, assimilation analysis, heat flux, avhrr, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, salinity, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea surface height, ocean heat budget, dods, topex radar altimeter, ocean topography experiment, esip, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) Database and Ocean Drilling Project (ODP) Database (Janus) at Texas AM University. ABSTRACT: These databases contain geological and geophysical investigations of the cores recovered from almost every ocean of the world. The data were collected on oceanographic cruises of the Deep Sea Drilling Program and the Ocean Drilling Program. Janus Web provides access to ODP's Oracle relational database Janus. The database contains 450 tables of ODP's marine geoscience data that are collected onboard the drillship JOIDES Resolution. The database includes paleontological, lithostratigraphic, chemical, physical, sedimentological, and geophysical data for ocean sediments and hard rocks. Janus has been used to collect data since Leg 171A (January 1997). During the first postcruise (moratorium) year, access to proprietary ODP data is only given to scientists who participated on the cruise. Proprietary data are released to the public one year after the end of each cruise. Non-proprietary data such as ODP & DSDP site information are available to everyone. Data collected prior to Leg 171A are being added to Janus as time permits. Some of the Janus data is available in the CHRONOS system (http:  www.chronos.org ). KEYWORD: carbonate sediments, arctic ocean, biological classification, arctic, western asia, sedimentary core description, biogeochemical cycles, downhole temperature measurements, microfossil investigations, miocene, paleogene, protists, gas analysis in the sediments, underway geophysical data, amoeboids, caribbean sea, south atlantic ocean, marine magnetics, north pacific ocean, magnetic anomalies, sediment composition, stable isotopes, thin sections, ocean chemistry, geochemistry, carbon, carbobnates, pleistocene, tasman sea, sedimentation, plate tectonics, marine volcanism, red sea, ships, japan sea, oceans, rocks, minerals, radiocarbon, gulf of california, magnetic susceptibility, sediments, neogene, microfossils, continent, benthic heat flow, foraminifers, smear slides, north atlantic ocean, sea of japan, gulf of aden, paleoclimate, stratigraphic sequence, plants, quaternary, baffin bay, sediment grain size, ocean tracers, marine sediments, polar, southern ocean, density, hydrothermal vents, interstitial water chemical analysis, paleomagnetic observations, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, minor elements, greenland sea, biogeochemistry, diatoms, gas hydrates, marine gravity field, rock corers, thermal conductivity, paleo stop date 0 ma, xray diffraction, solid earth, sediment corers, holocene, marine geophysics, biogenic sediments, isotopes, paleomagnetic data, microalgae, xray flourescence, arabian sea, hydrocarbons, paleontology range charts, sedimentary textures, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, geomagnetism, hydration, gulf of mexico, paleomagnetism, paleo start date 20 ma, south pacific ocean, ross sea, bathymetry, aegean sea, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, mid-ocean ridges, natural resources, cenozoic, labrador sea, coral sea, seismic data, ocean drilling program , deep sea drilling program, chronos, hard rock core description, philippine sea, mediterranean sea, texas a&m university, trace elements, joides resolution, marine geochemistry, ocean, lake records, odp, dsdp, weddell sea, carbonate, p-wave velocity, bering sea, amd, us, tamu, eocene, asia, earth science, antarctic ocean, ceos, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, color reflectance, major elements, age profiles, janus, natural gamma ray radiations, atlantic ocean, black sea, 
TITLE: Marine gravity survey of the whole Scoresby Sund and adjacent fjords (E Greenland), 1988 1990 1994, (projects ARK-V 3b, ARK-VII 3b, ARK-X 2). ABSTRACT: Besides others, the aim of the marine gravity measurements of the ARK-V 3b and ARK-VII 3b expeditions was to: a) map the crustal structure of totally different geological units in a region of close proximity, b) map the sedimentary distribution and the western boundary of the Mesozoic sediment basin of Jameson Land. Sample rate was between 25 m and 150 m depending on ship's speed. The following instrument was used: KSS 31 25 sea gravity meter. The geographical coverage is as follows: ARK-VII 3b, ARK-V 3b: 6000 km of marine gravity data covering the whole Scoresby Sund and adjacent fjords. Data are available on request, but with special arrangement.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, idn_node esrin, dlr, gravity field, ark-v, 3b, germany, dlr, arctic, sea floor, marine geophysics, ark-vii, 3b, greenland, north america, ark-x, 2, marine gravity, structure of the east greenland continental margin, polar, vertical location, marine gravity survey, gravitational field, earth science, jameson land, ceos, scoresby sund, geodetics, gravity, fjords, crust, bedrock lithology, coastal processes, ships, ocean, marine gravity field, gravimeters, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Earthquake Hypocenter Data from 1965-2002. ABSTRACT: Catalogue is prepared according to the earthquake data of the Arctic region published in the year-books "Earthquakes in the USSR in 1962-1991" (Ed. N.Kondorskaya) and "Earthquakes of the Northern Eurasia in 1992-2002" (Ed. O.Starovoit) published by the Geophysical Survey of RAS. The data set contains the information on 978 events of the Arctic region for the period from 1965 to 2002. Catalogue contains parametres regarding hypocenters such as geographical co-ordinates, depth, time, and also values of a power class and magnitudes.. KEYWORD: solid earth, polar, ipy, ipy field stations, seismology, arctic, earth science, international polar year, earthquake occurrences, polar field stations and ipy history: culture, heritage, governance (1882-present)', geographic region, eurasia, 
TITLE: Vegetation dynamics and geocryological conditions of the West Siberian Arctic, Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set includes soil temperature and ground temperature in 10 m boreholes, and active layer thickness, at 30 stations in both natural and disturbed conditions near gas pipelines, measured each September. The stations were also monitored yearly in July-August, and ecological parameters such as species composition, plant abundance, mean height of plants, and projection coverage were measured. A digital landscape map (scale 1 to 5000) was compiled for Nadym station. These data were collected at Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program Network Site ID R1.. KEYWORD: continent, disturbances, active layer, soil types, ggd, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, usa, noaa, northern hemisphere, russia, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, digital mapping, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, vegetation cover, land surface, biosphere, monitoring, eastern europe, permafrost, frozen ground, west siberian arctic, russia, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Data from the Scientific Ice Expeditions (SCICEX), Available from Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory. ABSTRACT: The Scientific Ice Expeditions (SCICEX) are a joint collaboration between the U.S. Navy and university scientists. The Navy made available a nuclear-powered submarine for unclassified scientific research cruises in the Arctic Ocean. The advantage of the submarine is it's high maneuverability compared to an ice-breaker, and that oceanographic measurements can be made under the Arctic's ice sheet. Data have been collected from over 100,000 miles of ship track, begining in 1993 with the test cruise and continuing during the five years of the project from 1995 through 1999. Data include, but are not limited to, physical and chemical measurments of water using CTDs and bottle measurements, bottom topography using side-scan sonar, and biological samplings of bacteria and amphipods. [This information was obtained from the SCICEX website at LDEO.]. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, oxygen meters, crustaceans, arthropods, arctic, ammonia, water temperature, ocean temperature, particulate carbon, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, physical oceanography, us navy, carbon, oxygen, stable isotopes, tritium, ocean chemistry, alkalinity, bathymetry, seafloor topography, nitrite, ocean, dod, fluorometers, oceans, salinity, density, chemical oceanography, geographic region, u.s. navy, animals, invertebrates, nitrous oxide, niskin bottles, ammonium, nitrate, biological oceanography, side-scan sonar, nutrients, bacteria, archaea, submarine, seafloor topography, particulate nitrogen, organic carbon, polar, carbon dioxide, del oxygen-18, salinity, nitrogen, earth science, phosphate, usa, nasa, amphipods, water bottles, total organic nitrogen, silicate, transmissometers, 
TITLE: MMS Aerial Surveys for Seabirds and Mammals, Oregon and Washington. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Oregon and Washington Marine Mammal And Seabird Surveys Sstudies: -- Oregon Washington Aerial [Birds and Mammals] Study Code: OP Contract Number: 14-12-0001-30426 Principal Investigator(s) Affiliation: G. A. Green, Ebasco Environmental, Bellevue, Washington, M. L. Bonnell and K. T. Briggs, Ecological Consulting, Inc., Portland, Oregon PURPOSE: OBJECTIVES: Objectives of the study were to review and analyze all available literature and databases concerning marine mammal and seabird diversity, distribution, and abundance in the Oregon-Washington coastal and offshore areas; to conduct field surveys over a 18-month period and to prepare reports summarizing the findings. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: April 1989 through October 1990 STUDY AREA: Pacific Ocean waters of Oregon and Washington from the coast to approximately 60 nautical miles offshore. METHODOLGY: Aerial surveys were conducted along 32 pre-established transects designed to systematically sample marine mammal and seabird abundance in all waters of the study area. Coastal surveys and one shelf break survey were also conducted. Standard transects provided systematic coverage of shelf, slope, and offshore waters in the study area. Sightings of seabirds, pinnipeds, cetaceans, and turtles were recorded. Seabird sightings were recorded only on the shaded side of the aircraft within a strip transect of 50 m width. Marine mammal and turtle sightings were recorded within an unbounded corridor. Declination angle was measured and noted for each marine mammal turtle sightings and later used to calculate a probability density function of frequency with right-angle sighting distance. Navigation was by Loran and VLF-Omega. One ship survey was also conducted from aboard the NOAA ship Miller Freeman during August 1989. DATABASES PRODUCED: Databases produced include 1) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 12 aerial surveys and one ship cruise, and 2) sightings of cetaceans on 12 aerial surveys and one ship cruise. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, herons, rhinoceros auklet, troit, steller's sea lion, cormorants, negreta ala blanca, colimbo menor, steller sealion, mouette de bonaparte, cheurs, gaviota occidental, gant, marsouins, requin bleu, anite cul-blanc, brown pelican, arctic tern, ross' gulls, gaviota ploma, cormorans, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, fin whale, ibis, labbes, loons, jaegers, negreta negra, penguins, skates, dolphins, humpback whale, continent, blue shark, pardela cola corta, perviers, rgulo antiguo, gaviota plateada, storm petrels, tinglar, front blanc, fulmars, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, colimbo mayor, pingouins, puffin fuligineux, ballena gris, labbe pomarin, puffins, pez luna, black scoter, ballena jorobada, fish, northern right-whale dolphin, herons, egrets and allies, common loon, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, long-tailed jaeger, northern elephant seal, harbor porpoise, alcuela oscura, gaviota pico anillado, labbe parasite, cassin's auklet, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, california, gaviota californiana, cetaceans, steller sea lion, whales, northern sea lion, pomarine jaeger, gulls, n azul, faucons, harbor seal, common murre, tufted puffin, ancient murrelet, auks, beaked whales, storks, plongeon catmarin, negreta nuca blanca, turtles, toothed whales, pardela pata rosada, n chato, pelagic cormorant, marsouin commun, typical terns, sterne arctique, fork-tailed storm-petrel, northern right whale dolphin, gaviota de bonaparte, achichilique pico amarillo, california sealion, ring-billed gull, marine mammals, red-necked phalarope, pardela de buller, huarts, finback whale, ocean sunfish, tubinares, white-winged scoter, heermann's gull, northern fur seal, rons, herring gull, gico, western grebe, salteador cola larga, bosse, obis, seamap, biological classification, salteador pomarino, aigles, longue queue, sabine's gulls, true's porpoise, arctic, sharks, bonaparte's gull, torpedoes, sabine's gull, macreuse noire, marbled murrelet, waders, gulls, auks and allies, california sea lion, north pacific bottle-nosed whale, western gull, sternes, sperm whale, ibises, petrels, tortue luth, mammals, terns, guillemots, glaucous-winged gull, land de californie, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, grebes, macreuse brune, leatherback, flamants, shearwaters, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, rorquals, polar, n de brandt, kittiwakes, sito, n costado blanco, dauphins, nutria marina, porpoises, rtico, carnivores, cou blanc, risso's dolphin, o de leach, california gull, baird's beaked whale, leatherback sea turtle, res marins, sooty shearwater, n caspia, sterne caspienne, rorqual commun, ballena de aleta, north america, falaropo pico grueso, sharks, rays, chimaeras, red-throated loon, pacific white-sided dolphin, baleen whales, phoque commun, gray whale, leatherback turtle, triers, marsopa de dall, red phalarope, guillemot marmette, orca, sea otter, albatros, oregon, geographic region, rays, caspian tern, pardela gris, scoters, leach's storm-petrel, mouettes, northern sea elephant, brandt's cormorant, northern fulmar, reptiles, surf scoter, golfinho, falaropo cuello rojo, killer whale, common porpoise, horned puffin, obis-seamap, seals, sea lions, walruses, united states of america, baleia, otters, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, dall's porpoise, plongeon huard, licans, grampus, ivory gulls, pelicans and allies, aircraft, earth science, paulard, lobo-marino californiano, baleines, black-legged kittiwake, trels, ibises, spoonbills, cano pardo, lands, gaviota ala glauca, finback whales, 
TITLE: Polar Pathfinder Sampler: AVHRR, SMMR-SSM I, and TOVS Samples and Combined Time Series. ABSTRACT: Notice to Users: Distribution of this data set will be discontinued by 31 December 2009, or earlier, should user requests for the Polar Pathfinder Sampler CD-ROM exceed our supply before that date. The AVHRR, SMMR-SSM I and TOVS Polar Pathfinder research teams collaborated to make it as easy as possible to use Polar Pathfinder data sets together by employing a common projection, namely the NSIDC Equal-Area Scalable Earth-Grid (EASE-Grid), and validation methods to develop consistently processed data sets that are easy to combine, compare and contrast. This CD-ROM includes sample data, time-series visualizations, and browse products, for temporal and spatial subsets of the AVHRR, SMMR-SSM I and TOVS data sets, to illustrate the types of products available for the various data sets. AVHRR products for both hemispheres, at 1.25 and 5 km resolutions, include calibrated channel data, surface broadband albedo, surface temperature, and ancillary data so that users can apply algorithms of their choice to calculate albedo and surface temperature. To conserve space, the CD-ROM includes 1.25 km AVHRR time-series visualizations, rather than raw data; and 5 km AVHRR sample data (for 8 September 1997), movies and browse images. SMMR-SSM I parameters, that can be derived from global brightness temperatures, include snow water equivalent, snow extent, seasonal sea ice concentrations, location of multiyear ice, ocean wind speed, cloud liquid water over oceans and water vapor over oceans. The CD-ROM contains a sample data set comprising selected SSM I brightness temperature data and time files for 8 September 1997 (the same day as in the 5 km AVHRR data, to facilitate comparisons) in each of three projections: Northern and Southern Hemispheres and a global projection. TOVS parameters derived from arctic radiances include atmospheric temperature profiles, water vapor, surface temperature, total effective cloud fraction, cloud top pressure and temperature, turning angle between geostrophic wind and surface stress over ice, emissivity, boundary layer stratification and geostrophic drag coefficient. The CD-ROM includes sample TOVS products for four selected dates in 1988. The P-Cube is a multidimensional structure combining arctic SSM I, AVHRR and TOVS data, all mapped to a 100 km resolution EASE-Grid, thereby facilitating study of polar processes and interactions among them using data from multiple sensors. The current prototype version of the P-Cube includes the most important parameters from the three Polar Pathfinders noted above. The Polar Pathfinder Sampler CD-ROM is currently the only source of the P-Cube data; temporal coverage extends from 1 January 1988 to 31 December 1989. All data at the original resolution are now available. See NOAA NASA Polar Pathfinder Data or contact User Services for more information.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ancillary data, advanced very high resolution radiometer, emissivity, atmospheric temperature, arctic, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, effective cloud fraction, nimbus-7, sea ice, spectral, engineering, sea ice motion, terrestrial hydrosphere, surface broadband albedo, albedo, thermal infrared, atmospheric temperature profiles, infrared wavelengths, pathfinder, wind stress, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, skin temperature, brightness temperature, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, total effective cloud fraction, turning angle, oceans, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, tiros operational vertical sounder, visible imagery, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, noaa poes, infrared imagery, smmr, air temperature, clouds, calibrated channel data, tovs, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, snow, ice, avhrr, microwave, cloud top pressure, arctic radiances, polar, cloud top temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, boundary layer stratification, usa, nasa, snow, ice temperature, ssm, i, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, geostrophic drag coefficient, esip, 
TITLE: Arctic Climatology Project - EWG Arctic Meteorology and Climate Atlas. ABSTRACT: The Environmental Working Group (EWG) was established in June 1995 under the framework of the U.S.-Russian Joint Commission on Economic and Technological Cooperation. In January 1996, the EWG Arctic Climatology Group took on the task of compiling digital data on arctic regions to expand scientific understanding of the Arctic. This work resulted in a set of three atlases on CD-ROM for arctic oceanography, sea ice, and meteorology. The Arctic Meteorology and Climate Atlas was developed by specialists from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, Russia, the University of Washington, Seattle, and the National Snow and Ice Data Center, University of Colorado, Boulder. The Atlas contains three main sections: a history section, a 'Primer,' and a data section. The history section and Primer provide background and introductory information for newcomers to arctic meteorology, while the data section contains gridded fields of meteorological parameters, and newly released meteorological station data from Russian and other sources. In addition, the Atlas includes several English translations of Russian technical documents, and a glossary of meteorological terms in English and Russian. Users can order the CD-ROM free of charge from NSIDC User Services Office. NSIDC also distributes the EWG Joint U.S.-Russian Atlas of the Arctic Ocean (Winter and Summer periods on two CD-ROMs), and the EWG Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas free of charge. The CD-ROMs are in HTML format.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, wet bulb thermometers, psychrometers, coastal stations, usa, noaa, precipitation, noaa, net radiation, humidity, thermometers, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, russian patrol ships, meteorology, surface air temperature, wind speed, solar radiation, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, arctic climatology project, hydrosphere, ships, longwave radiation, snow, climatology, cloud cover, oceans, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, drifting stations, incoming solar radiation, snow depth, sea level pressure, global radiation, total radiation, air temperature, clouds, two-meter air temperature, darms, visual observations, aneroid pressure sensor, radiation budget, snow, ice, ice stations, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, earth science, cryosphere, weather stations, ceos, climate, atmospheric pressure, direct radiation, cloud amount, frequency, hygrometers, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Soil Descriptions and Soil Chemistry for LAII ATLAS Winter Carbon Flux Sites, Alaska, 1992 and 1998-2000. ABSTRACT: Soil profiles at 27 sites in northern Alaska were described and classified in order to provide baseline soils data for ARCSS LAII ATLAS (Arctic Transitions in the Land-Atmosphere System) Winter Carbon Flux studies. The investigators collected samples and field data in the summers of 1992, 1998, 1999, and 2000. Profile descriptions include horizon depth, color, texture, and other morphological properties. Accompanying sample site descriptions provide information about landforms, vegetation cover, and soil parent material. Soils are classified according to USDA soil taxonomy guidelines. Laboratory analyses include measurements of soil water content, bulk density, texture, organic matter content, carbon storage, pH, and chemical components including carbon, nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, aluminum, manganese, and iron. Profile descriptions, laboratory data, and soil pit photographs and profile sketches are available via ftp in MS Excel, MS Word, and .JPG formats.. KEYWORD: nsidc, soil descriptions, soil moisture, water content, alpine, tundra, soil aluminum, soil structure, atlas, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, carbon analyzers, north america, carbon, soil bulk density, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, ground stations, soil carbon content, soil classification, phosphorus, soil carbon storage, ground-based observations, barrow, soil horizons, profile, arctic system science data coordination center, soil sampler, arctic soils, soil pits, soil horizons, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, office of polar programs, national science foundation, soil organic carbon content, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, soil manganese, chn analyzers, soil photographs, organic matter, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, soil properties, soil potassium, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, potassium, ph meters, soil iron, soil analyses, arcss074, soil water, opp-9732731, usa, nsf, united states of america, winter carbon flux monitoring, soil mineral matter, soils, soil sketches, soil phosphorus, polar, soil calcium, soil texture, usda soil descriptions, soil moisture, nitrogen, laii, earth science, ceos, land surface, soil color, adcc, national science foundation, soil ph, opp9732731, soil organic matter content, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Greenland 5 km DEM, Ice Thickness, and Bedrock Elevation Grids. ABSTRACT: A Digital Elevation Model (DEM), ice thickness grid, and bedrock elevation grid of Greenland acquired as part of the PARCA program are available in ASCII text format at a 5 km grid spacing in a polar stereographic projection. DEM data are a combination of ERS-1 and Geosat satellite radar altimetry data, Airborne Topographic Mapper (ATM) data, and photogrammetric digital height data. Ice thickness data are based on approximately 700,000 data points collected in the 1990s from a University of Kansas airborne ice penetrating radar (IPR). Nearly 30,000 data points were collected in the 1970s from a Technical University of Denmark (TUD) airborne echo sounder. Bamber subtracted the ice thickness grid from the DEM to produce a grid of bedrock elevation values. Applications include studies of gravitational driving stress and ice volume (mass balance) of the Greenland Ice Sheet. Each of the three grids is approximately 1.5 MB. Data are available via FTP. Data access is unrestricted, but we recommend that users register with us. Registered users automatically receive e-mail notification of product updates and changes to processing.. KEYWORD: echo sounders, digital elevation model, altimeters, european remote sensing satellite-1, usa, noaa, dem, ice sheet, topographic effects, north america, atm, terrestrial hydrosphere, satellites, surface elevation, maps, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, topography, echo sounder, program in arctic regional climate assessment, ipr, ice penetrating radar, glaciers, ice sheets, ra, landforms, geodetic satellite, bedrock elevation, earth observing system data information system, topographical relief, airborne topographic mapper, radar echo sounders, continent, radar altimeters, ice sheet elevation, ers radar altimeter, eosdis, ers-1, greenland, earth science information partners program, ice thickness, snow, ice, altimetry, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, parca, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, radar, ice sheets, geosat, ice depth, thickness, esip, 
TITLE: Conductivity-Temperature-Depth (CTD) data from the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China. ABSTRACT: Thirty-eight CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay (Dec. 1990-Apr. 1991) as a supplement to the krill research program. Casts were made to 1000m or to near the bottom if shallower. In situ salinity, temperature and sigma-Tare tabulated for standard depths, and shown graphically.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, amd, cn, polar, salinity, southern ocean, density, earth science, ceos, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, prydz bay, water depth, ocean, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic basemap. ABSTRACT: A circumpolar basemap of The Arctic. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: Circumpolar ArcInfo coverage of The Arctic Source Map Name: ArcWorld on CD-ROM Source Map Scale: 25000000 Projection: Lambert Azimuthal Projection_desc: Lat of centre: 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs polys Vector Summary: Circumpolar ArcInfo coverage of The Arctic derived from ESRI's ArcWorld 1:25M basemap of the world. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 2 Vector Name: ArcInfo coverage of latitude line 50 degrees Projection: Azimuthal Projection_desc: lat of centre: 90 0 0 Projection_meas: metres Feature_type: arcs polys Vector Summary: Circumpolar ArcInfo coverage of the latitude line 50 degrees.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, basemap, arctic, earth science, temperate ecosystems and cold zone ecosystems, ceos, terrestrial ecosystems, unep, grid, ocean, arctic region, boundaries, political divisions, un, human dimensions, geographic region, 
TITLE: Soil Temperatures, Toolik Lake, Alaska, 1995 and 1996. ABSTRACT: Soil temperatures were measured at the Toolik Lake Field Station during the summers of 1995 and 1996. Measurements were made on control plots, plots from which snow was removed, and plots from which snow was removed before the installation of heating cables at 10-cm depth. Plots with heating cables were heated two hours per day. Soil temperatures were recorded once per minute using a Campbell 21X micrologger measuring a thermocouple located at 5-cm soil depth in an intertussock area within each plot. Data are available in ASCII and MS Excel formats via ftp.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, thermocouples, arctic, opp9615845, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss, laii, itex, opp-9321626, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, soil temperature, soils, opp9321626, ground-based observations, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, soil temperatures, toolik lake, adcc, arcss057, national science foundation, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, frozen ground, geographic region, opp-9615845, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Real-Time Coastal Current Images off the New Jersey Coast. ABSTRACT: Real-time images of currents off the New Jersey coast are available online. "Long-range" data measures currents over an area larger than the size of New Jersey! While the data within the "Standard" system measures currents in a high-resolution off the coast of Tuckerton, NJ.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, continent, coastal processes, north america, earth science, new jersey, oceans, usa, nasa, longshore currents, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager Data at Zhongshan Station Antarctic in 2001. ABSTRACT: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager is to monitor auroral displays at certain wavelength at nearly 180 degrees filed of view. The data is digitized images recorded on DVD-R with two copies; one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between these two institutes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, ccd imager, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, aurorae, geographic region, 
TITLE: Conjugate observation data in Iceland. ABSTRACT: Conjugate observation data in Iceland. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, iceland, northern europe, atmospheric chemistry, ipy, international polar year, geographic region, arctic, jp, europe, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Standard Binned Product Suite. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color and sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color and SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. SST processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Historical Sea Ice Time Series from the Atlantic Arctic. ABSTRACT: The Historical Sea Ice Time Series from the Atlantic Arctic data are a compilation of existing century-scale time series derived from historical observations and sea ice charts from a range of sources. The purpose of the dataset is to provide a convenient compilation and consistent description of these published though scattered data. Provided here are various indices of sea-ice conditions, ranging from estimated sea-ice extent, sea-ice edge, sea-ice export and sea-ice incidence (duration). The original time series were constructed by individual researchers using various sources ranging from historical ice charts to annals and other descriptive information. Spatial and temporal coverage varies. Spatially, the data span the Atlantic Arctic from Newfoundland to the Barents and Baltic Seas. The representativeness of each series is typically sub-regional (10s of km) to regional (100s of km). Temporally, the time series are range from approximately one to three centuries. There a very few years with missing values, usually in the early part of the series. There is generally one value per year; however, the effective temporal resolution is sub-annual, typically representing a seasonal indicator.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arctic system science, usa, nsf, ocean, ice edges, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, baltic sea, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Devon Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected during the course of a regional mapping project on Devon Island, Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, devon island, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 8th CHINARE in 1991-1992. ABSTRACT: 38 52GG planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, ships, ocean, amd, cn, plankton nets, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Yearly Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Main Meteorological Observations (Daily Data) from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The MMOSDD data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include pressure, humidity, precipitation, clouds, maximum winds, mean air temperature, maximum air temperature, minimum air temperature, minimum soil temperature, minimum humidity, sunshine duration, snow depth, snow coverage, atmospheric phenomena duration, and atmospheric phenomena occurence for Europe, Africa, Australia, and Asia since 1982.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, snow cover, atmospheric phenomena occurence, humidity, atmospheric phenomena duration, soil temperature, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, air quality, minimum air temperature, visibility, australia, maximum, minimum temperature, atmospheric water vapor, mmosdd, atmospheric winds, maximum winds, water vapor, mean air temperature, minimum soil temperature, geographic region, snow depth, continent, air temperature, clouds, minimum humidity, soils, snow, ice, europe, surface winds, polar, maximum air temperature, cloud types, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, snow coverage, eastern europe, cloud amount, frequency, eurasia, sunshine duration, 
TITLE: Landsat TM and MSS data from Eurimage. ABSTRACT: Eurimage distributes, in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, Landsat data received at the following European Space Agency (ESA) ground receiving stations: Fucino (Italy) Kiruna (Sweden) Maspalomas (Canary Islands, Spain) Fucino has been acquiring MSS and TM data since 1975 and 1984, respectively. Kiruna started in 1978 and 1984, respectively, but stopped acquiring in December 1993. Maspalomas commenced acquiring MSS data in 1984 and TM data in 1987, but acquisition stopped at the end of 1990. Maspalomas acquisition restarted at the end of March 1994, and since then has established a pattern of about 4 months acquisition during the late spring and summer each year. Production of Maspalomas data is currently carried out at Fucino. These stations provide coverage of Western and Eastern Europe, North and West Africa and northern parts of the Middle East. Eurimage also supplies Landsat data coverage of other parts of the world, through its access to the EOSAT archive, which has coverage of large areas of the world dating back to 1972; or by supplying data through EOSAT from international ground stations. Eurimage provides on-line access to data from Landsat through EiNet on the WWW. EiNet is a subscription service which allows users to browse quick look images and meta data from serveral Earth Observation satellites. Einet is accessed via the WWW at: http:  www.eurimage.com products landsat.html. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, ecological dynamics, arctic, rivers, stream habitat, land surface temperature, south america, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, africa, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, australia, biosphere, metamorphic rocks, sedimentation, land temperature, topographical relief, rocks, minerals, gosic, land use classes, glaciers, continent, turbidity, thermal inertia, visible imagery, landsat-3, landsat-2, landsat-5, boundary layer, landsat-4, north atlantic ocean, global, equatorial, soils, europe, fire ecology, polar, southern ocean, erosion, sedimentation, pacific ocean, cryosphere, environmental impacts, tm, solid earth, terrain elevation, soil moisture, water content, surface radiative properties, mss, thermal properties, snow cover, north america, human dimensions, petroleum, land cover, gtos, topography, terrestrial ecosystems, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, ocean, erosion, biomass burning, amd, landsat-1, geographic region, indian ocean, g3os, natural resources, vegetation, clouds, amd, int, wetlands, mediterranean sea, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, thematic mapper, cultural features, snow, ice, vertical location, tems, cloud types, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, igneous rocks, usa, nasa, land resources, contours, infrastructure, rivers, streams, atlantic ocean, multispectral scanner, fire occurrence, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Arctic Radiation Measurement in Column: Atmosphere-Surface (ARMCAS) MODIS Airborne Simulator (MAS) Level-1B Data Products. ABSTRACT: The objective of the Arctic Radiation Measurement in Column: Atmosphere-Surface (ARMCAS) experiment was to detect and differentiate between clouds, ice, and snow over Northern Alaska. This experiment will also help determine the scattering albedo of clouds at selected wavelengths in the visible and near-infrared bands. The data was collected for the MODIS Airborne Simulator (MAS) project. This data will help define, develope, and test algorithms for the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor which is a key sensor of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS). The ARMCAS data are available from the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center L1 and Atmosphere Archive and Distribution System (LAADS). The data cover the Brooks Range, North Slope, and Bering Sea in Alaska. Browse imagery of the data may be viewed from the MODIS Homepage at: http:  mas.arc.nasa.gov data deploy_html armcas_home.html To order HDF formatted MAS data, link to the GSFC DAAC homepage at: http:  ladsweb.nascom.nasa.gov data MAS.html [Summary adapted from the GSFC LAADS homepage]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, visible imagery, brooks range, arctic, infrared imagery, clouds, level-1b, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, earth science information partners program, united states of america, snow cover, north america, alaska, imagery, spectral, engineering, north slope, snow, ice, mas, north pacific ocean, albedo, near infrared bands, modis, bering sea, polar, infrared wavelengths, pacific ocean, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, hdf, usa, nasa, visible wavelengths, cloud amount, frequency, cloud albedo, earth observing system data information system, ocean, modis airborne simulator, esip, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, 1002 Area, Petroleum Assessment, 1998 CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: The following was abstracted from the USGS home page at "http:  pubs.usgs.gov fs fs-0028-01 " The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (1980) established the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) (fig. 1) as a wildlife refuge. In section 1002 of that act, Congress deferred a decision regarding future management of the 1.5-million-acre coastal plain ("1002 area") in recognition of the area's potentially enormous oil and gas resources and its importance as wildlife habitat. A report on the resources (including petroleum) of the 1002 area was submitted in 1987 to Congress by the Department of the Interior (DOI). Since completion of that report, numerous wells have been drilled and oil fields discovered near ANWR (fig. 2), new geologic and geophysical data have become available, seismic processing and interpretation capabilities have improved, and the economics of North Slope oil development have changed significantly. The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) commonly is asked to provide the Federal Government with timely scientific information in support of decisions regarding land management, environmental quality, and economic and strategic policy. To do so, the USGS must anticipate issues most likely to be the focus of policymakers in the future. Anticipating the need for scientific information and considering the decade-old perspective of the petroleum resource estimates included in the 1987 Report to Congress, the USGS has reexamined the geology of the ANWR 1002 area and prepared a new petroleum resource assessment.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, natural resources, seismology, arctic, seismic profile, northern hemisphere, united states of america, north america, stratigraphic sequence, alaska, seismic surface waves, tectonics, petroleum, seismic body waves, polar, earth science, ceos, natural gas, conservation, ocean, gas hydrates, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Prince of Wales Island, Canada - Radiocarbon Sample Database. ABSTRACT: A Cardbox file containing dated and undated radiocarbon samples collected during the course of a regional mapping project on Prince of Wales Island, Nunavut.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, nunavut, paleoclimate, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, isotopes, ocean, lake records, land records, polar, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, radiocarbon, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, prince of wales, 
TITLE: Kittlitz's Murrelet. Birds of North America. ABSTRACT: The Kittlitz's Murrelet Brachyramphus brevirostris is bird is a species of environmental concern, and only 21 confirmed nest locations are published for North America. A wider analysis of these nest sites is coming forward, and it appears that these nests are associated with glaciers and vulcanoe slopes. However, this is only an impression based on the small sample of nests. This species also occurs in Russia, but only few details are known. The species is reported to underlie drastic declines during the last 20 years, likely due to global change, e.g. glacier retreat. The data presented here are derived from a species account (Day et al. 1999) and geo-referenced in Arc View GIS. They can be used for further analyzing and modeling in a Geographic Information System (GIS). Caution is to be taken when interpreting these nest locations because the sample size is extremely low, and nests were found in a somewhat opportunistic fashion. For use and interpretation of this data set, please contact experts.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, arctic, earth science, ceos, birds, brachyramphus brevirostris, animals, vertebrates, united states of america, north america, gis layers, alaska, kittlitz's murrelet, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: 101.1 m long horizontal blue ice core collected from Scharffenbergbotnen, DML, Antarctica, in 2003 2004. ABSTRACT: Horizontal blue ice core collected from the surface of a blue ice area in Scharffenbergbotnen, Heimefrontfjella, DML. Samples were collected in austral summer 2003 2004 and transported to Finland for chemical analyses. The blue ice core is estimated to represent a 1000-year period of climate history 20 - 40 kyr B.P.. The results of the analyses will be available in 2005.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, blue ice areas, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, horizontal ice core, antarctica, paleoclimate, amd, fi, glaciers, ice sheets, amd, ice core records, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, blue ice area, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with hi-speed plankton collector by 7th CHINARE_SHPC in 1990-1991. ABSTRACT: 72 planktonic samples were collected from Antarctic using High speed plankton collector.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: All-Sky TV Camera Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004 dataset. ABSTRACT: All-sky TV camera is used to monitor aurora display nearly 180 degrees in filed of view, it consists of an all-sky camera,a control box, a timing generator, a time corrector, two HD-DVD recorders and a video output monitor. The all-sky video data is recorded on DVD-Rs with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other copy goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between two institutes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, aerosols, earth science, ceos, all-sky camera, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Global 30-Arc-Second Elevation Data Set. ABSTRACT: Digital elevation model (DEM) data are sampled arrays of surface elevations in raster form. A DEM provides elevation values in rows and columns, corresponding to a regular grid of points on the Earth's surface. The Global 30-Arc-Second Elevation Data Set (GTOPO30) is so named, because the spacing between adjacent elevation points is 30 arc-seconds (approximately 1 kilometer) of latitude and longitude. Completed in 1997, the GTOPO30 data set was developed at the U.S. Geological Survey's EROS Data Center over a 3-year period with support from several national and international cooperators. Using eight data sources, a global 30-arc-second DEM resulted from this cooperative effort. The GTOPO30 data are suitable for many regional and continental applications, including climate modeling; continental-scale land cover mapping; extraction of drainage features for hydrologic modeling; and geometric and atmospheric correction of medium- and coarse-resolution satellite image data.. KEYWORD: dted, continent, terrain elevation, global 30-arc-second elevation data set, digital elevation model, arctic, lp daac, global, dem, surface roughness, eosdis, nasa, esip, north america, south america, model, gtopo30, europe, polar, digital mapping, models, amd, us, africa, usgs, eros, australia, new zealand, topography, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, australia, slope, analysis, raster data, antarctica, contours, landforms, daac, nasa earth science information partners program, scar, earth observing system data information system, topographical relief, digital terrain elevation data, earth, elevation data, amd, geographic region, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Landsat 7 Orthorectified Imagery over Canada. ABSTRACT: The orthoimage data set is a complete set of cloud-free (less than 10%) orthoimages covering the Canadian landmass and created with the most accurate control data available at the time of creation. The imagery has been corrected with either provincial and aerial triangulation data or, if not available, the most accurate NTDB data. The objective is to obtain accuracy of 30 metres or better in the South and 50 metres or better in the North for a 90% level of confidence. The accuracy is evaluated for each orthoimage data set. The control data, which has been extracted from sources as mentioned above, can consist of road intersection vector data or lake island centroids. In some cases the intersection of the centre line of surficial river may have been used. The control points are distributed homogeneously within the image in specific sectors. Sectors are located in the surround of the image, in the lowest and highest elevation area of the image, and in all other areas in which overlapping image base sectors are located.The purpose is to promote the use of geomatics and educate by providing a Web and file transfer protocol (ftp) site that distributes Canada's geospatial data. The objective of the national orthoimage project is to produce a complete set of cloud-free (less than 10%) orthoimages covering the Canadian landmass using Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM+) data from the Landsat-7 satellite. Production, which began in fall 2000, will span a period of three to five years. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: ??Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: 49 Standard Parallel: 77 Longitude of Central Meridian: -95 Latitude of Projection Origin: 49 False Easting: 0 False Northing: 0 Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD 83 Ellipsoid Name: GRS 1980 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio: z39.50s:  geogratis.cgdi.gc.ca:6675 Imagerie Landsat 7 orthorectifee du Canada. KEYWORD: mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, northern hemisphere, forest fire science, north america, ontario, great slave lake, spectral, engineering, forest protection, forest science, land cover, near infrared bands, terrain major landform, infrared wavelengths, land productivity, topography, nova scotia, land use, land cover, forest products, commodities, ultraviolet wavelengths, landforms, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, hudson bay, canada, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, western hemisphere, visible reflectance, landsat-7, continent, newfoundland and labrador, forest mensuration, visible imagery, near infrared albedo, reforestation, infrared imagery, enhanced infared imagery, nunavut, northwest territories, agriculture, united states of america, saskatchewan, enhanced thematic mapper plus, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, forest yields, etm+, great lakes, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, quebec, forest management, alberta, near ir, prince edward island, landsat, 
TITLE: Vector Map Level 0 (VMap0) and Vector Map Level 1 (VMap1). ABSTRACT: The Vector Map Level 0 (VMap0) and Vector Map Level 1 (VMap1) databases are designed to provide vector-based geospatial data at low (VMap0) and medium (VMap1) resolutions. The content of VMap0 database is similar to the previously published Digital Chart of the World (DCW), enhanced with low-resolution bathymetry for global coverage. A reference library with general information is included to orient the user, while the index of geographic names helps in locating areas of interest. The content of VMap1 database corresponds to the topographic maps at the 1:250 000 scale. The VMap1 data originate from the National Topographic Data Base (NTDB) at the 1:250 000 scale. Different map sections and recoded entities in FACC (Feature Attribute Coding Catalog) codes according to VMap1 data specifications were added to the NTDB's data. The VMap0 data are organized in topologically layered data, representing six continental regions of the world. They are contained on four CD-ROM for nearly two gigabytes of data: Disk 1 - North America (NOAMER) Disk 2 - Europe and North Asia (EURNASIA) Disk 3 - South America, Africa, and Antarctic (SOAMAFR) Disk 4 - South Asia and Australia (SASAUS) The VMap1 data are organized in topologically layered data and sectioned in libraries. The Canadian territory is covered by 24 librairies of different sizes and map sections. Finally, the VMap0 and VMap1 databases consist in twelve thematic layers: boundaries, industry, tile reference, data quality, library reference, transportation, elevation, physiography, utilities, hydrography, population, vegetation. The primary source for the database is the 1:1 000 000 scale Operation Navigation Chart (ONC) series, coproduced by the military mapping authorities of Canada and many other countries. Data gaps may exist where source information is not available.VMap0 and VMap1 are an excellent source of base information for all aspects of global (VMap0), national and regional (VMap1) monitoring as well as for studying and developing research methodologies in geography, spatial analysis, earth sciences, social sciences, resource management, and communications. It provides a base for an unlimited number of value-added spatial overlays. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, gcmd, arctic, northern hemisphere, global land, north america, oceania, south america, boundaries, human dimensions, eastern hemisphere, europe, land cover, polar, amd, ca, africa, terrain relief intensity, australia, new zealand, topography, asia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, australia, land resources, antarctica, contours, canada, cgdi, topographical relief, southern hemisphere, amd, geographic region, eurasia, western hemisphere, land use classes, 
TITLE: Geomatics for High School Curriculum, Ontario, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Geomatics for High School Curriculum consists of Internet distributed geography lessons available in French and English for grades 9 to 12 that meet Ontario High School curriculum standards. The series of lessons can be conveniently adapted for other provinces. This Web Site was developed as a cooperative project with support and input from the federal government, private industry and high school teachers and presents two components: "Geography of Canada mapped by Ecozones, Grade 9 Academic & Applied courses" and 'Thinking Globally in the Local Classroom, Canada and World Issues: A geographic Analysis, Grade 12, University Preparation". "Geography of Canada mapped by Ecozones" makes use of diverse ecological data from EcoMap and the ecozone framework and utilizes GIS techniques for visualization, analysis and problem solving. The lessons are designed to provide the resources and data necessary to explore ten grade 9 geography topics using Canada's ecozones as a common base. As well as resource and background information, each lesson details a GIS exercise and provides the data required to run it. These lessons are designed to be a dynamic resource for teaching and learning Canadian geography, and expose students to leading-edge technology that will introduce them to GIS and geomatics on the Internet. The lessons also provide the users with links to other data and information sites that can be accessed through the Internet. Each lesson has been set-up with a common structure that presents: * General expectations * Lesson objectives * Background information * Student activities * Teacher support * Data download On the other hand, "Thinking Globally in the Local Classroom" is a Web site developed with the support and input from the "GLOBAL CLASSROOM INITIATIVE", a new CIDA (Canadian International Development Agencies) resource for educators wishing to encourage Canadian youth to actively explore international-cooperation issues. Development of the site has been a cooperative project between NGO's, private industry and high school teachers. The goal of the project "Thinking Globally in the Local Classroom" is to help students develop the skills knowledge, and values they need to become responsible citizens and informed participants of an increasingly interdependent world. This is achieved through activity modules that include background information, fact sheets, resources and Geographic Information System (GIS) lessons on four global themes: Sustainable Development, The Global Economy, Basic Education for All and Promote and Protect Human Rights. These modules are designed to be a dynamic resource that Ontario teachers can use in the "Canadian and World Studies" curriculum in particular for the Grade 12 course "Canada and World Issues : A geographic Analysis". The modules are also relevant to other Social Studies and Humanities courses in Ontario and in other Canadian provinces.The objective of the project was to develop a series of lessons suited for Ontario's curriculum that could be distributed over the Internet. These lessons could become an important tool for high school teachers and students and have several distinct goals: * To teach Canadian geography in a new and exciting format that emphasizes the development of knowledge, applications and current environmental geospatial information; * To provide a resource of lesson plans and guidance for teachers; * To use geomatics information to explore the diverse nature of the Canadian Ecozones, Canadian Studies and World Issues; * To teach GIS and web-search techniques in geomatics applications; and, * To provide Internet access to lessons and resource material. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point, Vector, Polygon, Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, high school, biological classification, geomorphology, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, geology, northwest territories, parks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, physiography, human dimensions, yukon territory, wildlife, polar, ecozones, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, quebec, alberta, transportation, population, animals, vertebrates, canada, cgdi, mammals, canada, prince edward island, infrastructure, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, lessons, 
TITLE: Coordinated Eastern Arctic Experiment (CEAREX) Data. ABSTRACT: CEAREX was a multi-platform field program conducted in the Norwegian Seas and Greenland north to Svalbard from September 1988 through May 1989. Canada, Denmark, France, Norway and the United States participated in the experiment. Primary data from CEAREX are available on CD-ROM in ASCII format along with some data from the Marginal Ice Zone Experiment (MIZEX) and the Eurasian Basin Experiment (EUBEX). CD-ROM production was supported by the Arctic Program of the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Meteorology data from CEAREX and the MIZEX (1983, 1984, 1987) include near-surface time series and rawinsonde (upper-air sounding) profiles of wind, pressure, temperature, and humidity collected on ship platforms and ice floe stations. A collection of hydrography data include CTD, STD, and bottle data from a ship and two operations camps. Hydrography data also include data from the MIZEX, the EUBEX, NODC archives, and a merged set of data from five other cruises. Sea ice data consist of compressive stress measurements made in a multi-year floe, stress sensor data for time series of stress invariants, and ice accelerometer data for movements associated with the deformation of multi-year ice floes. Noise data consist of acoustic measurements from a variety of hydrophone and geophone arrays, and ambient noise observations from a ship using omni-directional hydrophones tethered beneath the ice cover. Biophysical data on the CD-ROM include bottle sample, zooplankton sampling, and bioluminescence data. Bathymetry data consist of gridded trackline data collected from the two operations camps, and digital bottom bathymetry and continental topography data for the Fram Strait region and a portion of the Arctic Ocean. Sample position data consist of hourly listings of position and velocity for both manned stations and unmanned drifting buoys. Data are available on one CD-ROM.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, ice extent, ice stress sensors, arctic ocean, eurasian basin experiment, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, seasonal ice zone experiment, ocean acoustics, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, polarbjorn, buoys, sizex, ctd, carbon, sea ice, acoustics, humidity, thermometers, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea surface temperature, eubex, ice floe, ocean chemistry, std, platinum resistance thermometer, pressure gauges, relative humidity, barometric altitude, wind speed, wind direction, haakon mosby, biosphere, barometers, alkalinity, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, upwelling, downwelling, ships, nitrite, hydrophones, polar circle, organic matter, oceans, ice scattering, niskin bottles, sea ice concentration, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, eosdis, nutrients, helicopter, ice acceleration, surface winds, polar, ice floes, norwegian sea, cryosphere, geophones, phaeopigments, ice campactness, pigment concentration, greenland sea, ice motion, polar queen, marginal ice zone experiment, hydrography, onr, bioluminescence, polynyas, ambient noise, ice depth, thickness, accelerometers, esip, upper level winds, atmospheric temperature, ice breakup, ice temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, conductivity, fluorescence, phytoplankton, ice drift, sea ice motion, rawinsondes, mizex, meteorology, drifting buoys, pelagic habitat, pack ice, cearex, wind speed, direction, anemometers, bathymetry, seafloor topography, transponders, benthic habitat, water depth, earth observing system data information system, ocean, water vapor, leads, ice compactness, salinity, density, geographic region, altitude, acoustic attenuation, transmission, ice deformation, ammonium, nitrate, acoustic scattering, trace elements, earth science information partners program, ice edges, ice dynamics, bathyphotometer, ice velocity, ocean optics, plankton, heat flux, snow, ice, barents sea, ice stress, carbon dioxide, ocean winds, salinity, under-ice noise, pigments, coordinated eastern arctic experiment, nitrogen, aircraft, earth science, chlorophyll, phosphate, ceos, thermistors, usa, nasa, valdivia, station height, water bottles, mizex-83, silicate, species, population interactions, ph, ice growth rate, salinity, temperature, depth, hygrometers, atlantic ocean, mizex-84, ocean circulation, polarstern, mizex-87, 
TITLE: ASTER On-Demand L2 Brightness Temperature at the Sensor. ABSTRACT: The ASTER On-Demand L2 Brightness Temperature at the Sensor product is generated using the 5 thermal infrared bands within the 8 to 12 micrometer range. Brightness temperature results from the apparent temperature of the imaged surface based on a surface emissivity of 1.0 (the equivalent of a blackbody object). The Brightness Temperature at Sensor product ignores atmospheric effects. The radiance at the sensor is the integral over the instrument response function of the emissivity times the blackbody radiance. Spectral emissivity and temperature function as unknown values in this equation. The Brightness Temperature algorithm converts the radiance values from source L1B data into corresponding brightness temperature values by setting the emissivity equal to one, which is based on the assumption that the target is a blackbody. Brightness temperature is defined as the temperature that a blackbody assumes to produce the radiance perceived by the sensor. The output product is a five-band data set in units of degrees centigrade, scaled by a factor of 100. Brightness temperature products have been used to observe vastly different events--from detection of volcanic ash clouds to the ice leads in the Arctic. Data Set Characteristics: Area: ~60 km x 60 km Image Dimensions: 700 rows x 830 columns File Size: ~7 Megabytes Units: Centigrade (C?) Projection: Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) Data Format: HDF-EOS Vgroup Data Fields: 5. KEYWORD: polar, infrared wavelengths, terra, aster, usgs, eros, lpdaac, arctic, earth science, lp daac, echo, global, usa, nasa, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, brightness temperature, earth science information partners program, earth observing system data information system, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, spectral, engineering, esip, geographic region, usgs, 
TITLE: Mount Logan Ice Core Isotope and Accumulation Data, NOAA NCDC WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of a 301-year snow accumulation record from from Mount Logan, Yukon Territory, Canada. Snow accumulation is in meters, water equivalent, Estimated error + - 0.05 m (max). The data have been updated from original 1980 core, in 1981, 1986, 1988 and 2000. [Abstract] The relatively short length of most instrumental climate records restricts the study of climate variability, and it is therefore essential to extend the record into the past with the help of proxy data. Only since the late 1940s have atmospheric data been available that are sufficient in quality and spatial resolution to identify the dominant patterns of climate variability, such as the Pacific North America pattern and the Pacific Decadal Oscillation. Here we present a 301-year snow accumulation record from an ice core at a height of 5,340 m above sea level - from Mount Logan, in northwestern North America. This record shows features that are closely linked with the Pacific North America pattern for the period of instrumental data availability. Our record extends back in time to cover the period from the closing stages of the Little Ice Age to the warmest decade in the past millennium. We find a positive, accelerating trend in snow accumulation after the middle of the nineteenth century. This trend is paralleled by a warming over northwestern North America which has been associated with secular changes in both the Pacific North America pattern and the Pacific Decadal Oscillation.. KEYWORD: continent, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, proxy data, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, climate indicators, pages, north america, isotopes, quaternary, northwest north america, pacific decadal oscillation, oxygen, snow, ice, yukon territory, igbp, ground-based observations, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, paleo start date 300 ybp, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, yukon, canada, ice core records, snow accumulation, pdo, geographic region, teleconnections, oxygen isotopes, mount logan, snow depth, 
TITLE: SCAR (01-02) Epoch GPS Campaign. ABSTRACT: Antarctic plate movement monitoring geodynamics studies of the Antarctic to the international academic circles for many years of concern about large-scale, long-period research project, belonging to the Antarctic environment for long-term changes in the scope of the study. Our country from the "Eighth Five-Year Plan" started in this field. From the beginning of 92 years, SCAR more than a dozen organizations to coordinate more than 30 countries to participate in the annual Antarctic station for the 22 days of the Battle of the Joint Antarctic GPS measurements. From my 94 years of participating in the study of international cooperation. GPS measurements by the International Joint SCAR-WGGGI organize a large-scale international cooperation in scientific research projects. With the aim of: 1) measurement of the Antarctic plate with the adjacent plate, as well as micro-plate relative motion between the rate and direction of its movement; 2) determine the Antarctic plate within the various pieces of the crust between the relative movement; 3) reunification of the Antarctic base of the vertical system to identify Cunfa the South Pole station elevation above sea level; 4), due to melting ice and ocean changes in the load caused by the Antarctic lithosphere, the vertical movement and so on, "the world's interaction with Antarctic" scientific research. The GPS measurements of the International Alliance of time for the 2002 1 on 20 on 00:00 (UTC) -2002 year on February 10 24:00 (UTC), a total time of 22 days, the daily requirement for a 24-hour observation. Actual observation time for the January 10, 2002 to February 28, 2002. The Alliance of the measured use of Trimble 4000ssi by Wuhan University of Surveying and Mapping Institute, with its L1, L2 dual-phase output, and can accept yuan GPS satellite P1, P2 and P code for the international advanced, high-precision, international joint testing and Global site commonly used by many of the IGS.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, gps receivers, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, plate tectonics, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, tectonics, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: Yukon Minfile, Canada. ABSTRACT: Yukon Minfile is a computerized mineral inventory system that documents the exploration history and geology of metallic, industrial mineral and coal occurrences in the Yukon. The database contains detailed descriptions of 2 577 separate mineral occurrences located throughout the Yukon Territory. Yukon Minfile occurrences are categorized according to the National Topographic System (NTS) of 1: 250 000 map sheets and each occurrence is assigned a unique identifying number within each NTS sheet (i.e. 105D 079). The current version of the database incorporates data compiled up to April 2001.The Yukon Minfile database is the most complete reference tool available for researching mineral occurrences in the Yukon. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, minerals, crystals, arctic, earth science, ceos, mining, mineral deposits, canada, cgdi, northern hemisphere, canada, north america, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, yukon territory, 
TITLE: Near Global Ocean Currents Climatology by Meehl from NCAR. ABSTRACT: These monthly climatologies were prepared by G. Meehl and are archived at the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). G. Meehl prepared a 5 X 5 degree latitude longitude dataset of long-period ocean currents speed and direction based on pilot charts covering the world ocean southward to about 50 S. The pilot charts are based on summaries of ship drift data. One of the charts was updated about 1984, after the tape data was prepared. The digital data is available for January, April, July, and October representing the four seasons. Meehl (1982) decided to use pilot charts in constructing an observed seasonal source of global ocean surface currents. These charts are prepared by the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office (NAVOCEANO), and among numerous other quantities, arrows on these charts show surface current directions labeled with current speeds in either knots or nautical miles per hour. Data for the pilot charts are based on long-term mean current speeds and directions already derived from the NAVOCEANO shipdrift file. A ship drift is the difference between its true position and its predicted position calculated 24 hours earlier by dead reckoning; this difference can be attributed to wind and ocean currents. This data set provides the flexibility needed to produce a source of observed surface currents in a suitable format for use in ocean model and diagnostic studies.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, seasonal data, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, equatorial, sea surface, mediterranean sea, grid data, global ocean, vertical location, polar, surface, wind-driven circulation, pacific ocean, earth science, usa, nasa, ships, ocean, climatology, monthly data, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Aerial Survey Database for Canada (ASDB). ABSTRACT: The Aerial Survey Database (ASDB) is a data bank of photogrammetric control points that have been established through the process of aerotriangulation. The primary purpose of this database is to provide a minimum of four points for the compilation of each photogrammetric model contained in a 1:50,000 National Topographic Series (NTS) map sheet. The photogrammetric points can also be transferred to newly acquired aerial photography or satellite imagery and used as control for different derived products such as Digital Elevation Models, Digital Orthophotos, and Digital Perspective Scenes. The ASDB is divided into blocks; each block consists of several aerial photographs and diapostives covering one or several 1:50,000 NTS map sheets. The blocks are always identified by an alphanumeric code such as "H013" the letters in the code are used to identify the province or region (H=British Columbia), while the numbers indicate the order in which the particular block was completed within the designated area. The database consists of paper prints of the aerial photographs, along with the corresponding diapositives and the results of the photogrammetric adjustment. The adjustment contains (X,Y,Z) co-ordinates of all photogrammetric points. There are approximately two million points and 175,000 aerial photographs and diapositives in the Aerial Survey Database covering roughly 60 percent of the Canadian landmass.To provide a minimum of four points for the compilation of each photogrammetric model contained in a 1:50,000 National Topographic Series map sheet. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Grid Coordinate System Name: Universal Transverse Mercator Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, boundary surveys, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, aerial photographs, human dimensions, vertical location, polar, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, aerial surveys, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, nad83, photogrammetric control points, new brunswick, aerotriangulation, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: The Atlas of Canada - Printed Maps and Scanned Map Archive. ABSTRACT: The Atlas Map Collection provides coverage of the entire Canadian landmass. This collection contains base maps, maps of the National Atlas of Canada, 5th edition and other thematic maps prepared by the Atlas of Canada. These maps depict Canada's social, economic, environmental and cultural fabric. A World map is also included in this series. The Atlas of Canada no longer sells maps directly to the public. We recommend the purchase of Atlas of Canada maps from any of over 900 map dealers across Canada, the United States and overseas. The Atlas of Canada no longer sells maps directly to the public. We recommend the purchase of Atlas of Canada maps from any of over 900 map dealers across Canada, the United States and overseas ( http:  atlas.gc.ca site english dataservices wall_maps purchase_info.html ). Some Atlas of Canada printed maps are now available as scanned images in the Atlas of Canada's online Map Archives (http:  atlas.gc.ca site english maps archives).The Atlas of Canada is responsible for the development and maintenance of an authoritative synthesis of information on the geography of Canada. The Atlas of Canada provides a series of maps showing integrated geographical information about Canada for the general public, the educational sector, and policy-makers. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: geomorphology, mid-latitude, atlas, commerce and construction, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, human health, languages and bilinguism, quebec-windsor corridor, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, manufacturing, boundaries, circumpolar, human dimensions, exploration and migration, atlantic provinces, energy, canadian and census family, amd, ca, hydrology, political geography, prairie provinces, nova scotia, natural hazards, administrative and geostatistical areas, mining, antarctica, family structure and marital status, population, economic geography, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, justice and law, new brunswick, climatology, tourism and education, political divisions, pedology, amd, geographic region, western hemisphere, income, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, foreign lands, defence, global, nunavut, geology, international affairs, equatorial, northwest territories, settlement, agriculture, communications, ecology, saskatchewan, health and welfare, soils, cultural features, phytogeography, yukon territory, park, vertical location, polar, culture and ethnography, maritimes, earth science, ceos, agricultural aquatic sciences, geophysics, land surface, employment, finance and leisure, urban areas, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, religion, vital statistics, base and framework, prince edward island, infrastructure, zoogeography, fisheries, hydrography and environment, forestry, 
TITLE: Automated Weather Station Data for Greenland Ice Core Locations. ABSTRACT: Automated weather station data (temperature, precipitation, pressure, and wind direction and speed) were collected on and near the GISP2 site in Greenland. The data were collected every 10 minutes and compiled into three-hourly intervals at each site from 1987 to 1995.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, continent, precipitation amount, arcss, gisp2, atmospheric temperature, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, argos data collection and position location system, air temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, gisp2, greenland, precipitation, usa, nsf, arcss005, north america, greenland ice sheet project ii, temperature, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, greenland summit, surface winds, polar, surface pressure, surface air temperature, wind speed, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, wind direction, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, pressure, snow, ice temperature, adcc, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, national science foundation, argos, automated weather station data, geographic region, aws, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Vertical distribution of Cs-137 and Sr-90 in Antarctic soils, and their concentration in soils, moss and lichen. ABSTRACT: In 21 places on the South Shetland Islands, that experience similar annual precipitation, the superficial concentration of Cs-137 was determined. For the determination of the distribution, samples were collected a profile of 25 cm for radiological analysis, and to determine edaphic parameters for the layer, 1 - 1.5 kg samples ware taken for radiological analysis. For the edaphic analysis, 4 cylinders of 305 ml per horizon were recollected. Samples were processed for gamma and chemical separation of Sr-90 in IF and NIR.. KEYWORD: contaminants, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, ardley peninsula, heavy metals, arctic, strontium 90, sr-90, snow island, mosses, hornworts, liverworts, amd, cl, gamma ray spectrometers, plants, radioactive contamination, coppermine bay, superficial concentration, human dimensions, soils, admiralty bay, fides peninsula, chile bay, radioactivity, vertical location, polar, cs-137, mosses, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, vertical distribution, land surface, antarctica, south shetland islands, antarctic soils, ocean, fungi, radioactive contaminents, cesium 137, lichens, amd, geographic region, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Glacier Mass Balance and Regime Measurements and Analysis, 1945-2003. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of glacier regime parameters observed between 1945 and 2003. Data include annual mass balances, ablation, accumulation, and equilibrium-line altitude of mountain and subpolar glaciers outside the two major ice sheets. All available sources of information, such as publications, archived data, and personal communications have been collected, and include time series of more than 300 glaciers. Data have been digitized and quality checked. The data are available on CD-ROM from the Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research (INSTAAR) when a hardcopy of INSTAAR Occasional Paper #55 is ordered, or on FTP from NSIDC.. KEYWORD: glaciers, glaciology, nsidc, polar, instaar, mass balance, ablation, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, usa, noaa, ablation zones, accumulation zones, sea level rise, glaciers, ice sheets, global land, sea level change, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Daily Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: The Atlas of Canada - 6th Edition, On-line Interactive Mapping. ABSTRACT: This collection contains digital map data which is represented as GIF images when accessed using the interactive mapping software on the Atlas of Canada Web site (http:  atlas.gc.ca). These map layers depict Canada's physical, social, and economic geography and are all registered to a common Atlas digital base.The Atlas of Canada provides a series of intuitive web-based maps showing integrated geographical information about Canada for the general public and the education sector. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point, vector, raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD 83 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, earthquake occurrences, human health, pipelines, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, petroleum, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, ecotoxicology, topography, nova scotia, vegetation cover, biosphere, population, surface water, landforms, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, permafrost, canada, ocean, bioavailability, topographical relief, new brunswick, political divisions, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, natural resources, seismology, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, nunavut, northwest territories, agriculture, wetlands, united states of america, saskatchewan, lakes, soils, cultural features, fire ecology, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, electricity, land surface, quebec, alberta, transportation, natural gas, bedrock lithology, vital statistics, prince edward island, infrastructure, species, population interactions, rivers, streams, endangered species, atlantic ocean, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: JERS-1 Synthetic Aperture Radar Data held at the Alaska Satellite Facility. ABSTRACT: The data set consists of all JERS-1 SAR data acquired by the Alaska Satellite Facility (ASF) operated by the Geophysical Institute of the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. The data set is global in extent with strengths in images of rain forested regions and the North American Boreal Forest. Available products include: Full-res images are 4-look SAR images with 30 m resolution and 12.5 m pixel spacing over a 100 km x 100 km area. These are 8192 pixel x 8192 pixel x 8 bit (64MB) images. The data is corrected to the GEM06 geoid model. Lo-res images are produced by 8 x 8 averaging the full-res data. The resulting image is 1024 pixels x 1024 pixels x 8 bits (1 MB). Complex images, created on request, are 1-look data with approximately 10 m resolution covering an area of 30km x 50 km. Data is formatted as 12,888 pixel x 2048 pixel x 32 bit complex integers (16I, 16Q- about 100MB). The data contains backscatter amplitude and phase useful for interferometry studies of topography and feature motion. Approval by NASA or ESA is required to obtain the data. Please contact ASF user services to become a NASA approved investigator.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, geomorphology, arctic, echo, forest fire science, north america, south america, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, forest science, land cover, gtos, topography, land use, land cover, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, radar imagery, landforms, synthetic aperture radar, earth observing system data information system, ocean, asf daac, global change, frozen ground, oceans, sar data, geographic region, g3os, continent, sar daac, jers-1, radar backscatter, vegetation, global, eosdis, agriculture, wetlands, earth science information partners program, polar, tems, japanese earth resources satellite-1, sar, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, idn_node gsfc, asf, usa, nasa, daac, radar, coastal processes, esip, landscape, 
TITLE: Arctic & Antarctic Research Center (AARC) AVHRR and HRPT Direct Readout Radiance Data from McMurdo and Palmer Stations, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: AVHRR HRPT level 0 raw telemetry data are acquired at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Center (AARC) on selective passes by satellite receivers located at McMurdo Station, Antarctica (77 degrees, 51 minutes S, 166 degrees, 40 minutes E.) and Palmer Station, Antarctic Peninsula (64 degrees, 46 minutes S, 64 degrees, 4 minutes W.) Generally, most of the Antarctic continent and its coastline are covered daily. Swaths are 2250 kilometers long and generally start or end over the extreme South Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Ross Sea. Data collection from Palmer Station covers the land areas of West Antarctica, Southern South America, the South Atlantic including the Falkland Islands and the South Orkney Islands, and the Drake Passage and portions of the South Pacific Ocean. Continuous data collection at the McMurdo Station began on 26 October 1987. Data are also archived for 30 October 1985 - 2 December 1985 and for 30 October 1986 - 30 January 1987. Continuous data collection began at the Palmer Station 3 August 1989. The data resolution is 1100 meters at subtrack, 4000 - 6000 meters at limb; 360 scans per minute. Satellite revisit time is twice daily, however, due to the proximity to the South Pole, 14 passes a day are received at McMurdo and 10 passes a day are received at Palmer from each spacecraft. Data are acquired, archived, processed for requesters, and distributed by the Arctic & Antarctic Research Center (AARC). Processing of the raw data will depend on the requirements of the requester, but a typical sequence might be as follows: + Reformat raw data for extraction; up to 10 missing scan lines can be interpolated by the software. + Calibrate the reformatted data to convert from brightness values to temperature values. + Apply the moisture atmospheric correction. + Register selected data to the user-specified grid. + Transfer to user-specified medium. Some examples are tape, diskette, photographic product, or file format for electronic transfer. About 95 percent of the presently archived data have been cataloged on our online directory. Data dropouts, caused by transmission interference due to solar flare activity, occur in some images; the processing software can smooth the data if fewer than 10 scan lines are missing. All archived images contain usable data. Processed data are binary byte arrays of user-defined size. Full spacecraft attitude correction and earth correction routines are applied to the raw data to create the products. Orbital elements, equator crossings, altitude and period of the spacecraft are generated for the raw data using the AARC scientific workstation. Data products can be gridded to a user-specified grid. Data are also available in raw form (10 bits of information stored in a 16 bit word) on 4mm DDS2 or DDS3 DAT cassettes or DLT7000 tapes. Users would need access to an 4mm DAT or DLT7000 reader. An alternative method to access the digital archive is to use the Sun Workstations located at the AARC, Scripps Institution of Oceanography. AARC personnel can be contacted for access information.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, visible imagery, raw telemetry data, arctic, infrared imagery, visible radiance, noaa-10, noaa-12, noaa-11, south america, spectral, engineering, sensor counts, infrared radiance, avhrr, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, mcmurdo station, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, usa, nasa, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, antarctica, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, visible wavelengths, noaa-9, noaa-6, ocean, radiation, noaa-7, global change, palmer station, amd, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, hrpt, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day (MOD29P1D) data set contains fields for Sea Ice by Reflectance, Sea Ice by Reflectance Spatial Quality Assessment (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), and IST Spatial QA in Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. The fields Sea Ice by IST and Combined Sea Ice that were in Version 4 were removed from Version 5. MOD29P1D Version 5 (V005), the latest version of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, consists of 954 x 954 km files of 1 km resolution data gridded in the Lambert Azimuth Equal Area map projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective and thermal characteristics. MODIS Terra V005 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present; however, until reprocessing is complete in mid-2008 not all V005 data will be available. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Paleoenvironment, Geomorphic Processes, and Carbon Stocks of Drained Thaw-lake Basins in the Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska, USA, 2002-2005. ABSTRACT: These data are from a study of the origin and associated geomorphological, ecological, and pedological processes of thaw-lake basins of the Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska. The research utilized high-resolution multispectral satellite data, ground-penetrating radar, and extensive coring to estimate the amount of carbon sequestered in the drained basins. Investigators used radiometric dating, microfossil analysis, and soil development to determine whether carbon accumulation rates respond to regional changes in climate, or if they are influenced by local rates of plant succession. Investigators reported depths, adjusted depths, radiocarbon dates, calibrated radiocarbon dates, pollen, microfossils, soil bulk density, total organic carbon (TOC), and other descriptive statistics from the spring and summer seasons of April 2002 through April 2005. Data are in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, TIFF, JPEG, and ArcView Shapefile formats, available via FTP.. KEYWORD: geomorphology, cryopedology, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, radiocarbon dates, arcss176, soil depth, carbon analyzers, northern hemisphere, north america, soil bulk density, alaska, land records, ground-based observations, satellites, ocean chemistry, office of polar programs, national science foundation, soil organic carbon content, gps, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, coastal alaska, oceans, radiocarbon, geographic region, opp-0240338, nsf, opp, arcss, microfossils, landsat-7, continent, accelerator mass spectrometers, pollen, arctic coastal plain, ams, arcss, laii, paleoclimate, usa, nsf, ecology, united states of america, ocean, lake records, enhanced thematic mapper plus, soils, organic carbon, total organic carbon, polar, etm+, earth science, ceos, land surface, global positioning system, drained thaw-lake basin, landsat, 
TITLE: Fluxgate Magnetometer Observation at Zhongshan Station in Antarctica from 1997 to 2000. ABSTRACT: This observation was started in Jan. 1997 at China's Zhongshan Station, Antarctica. It is designed to observe earth's magnetic field including the horizontal component in north-south direction (H), the horizontal component in east-west direction (D), and the vertical component (Z). It is a collaborative scientific project between the Polar Research Institute of China and the National Institute of Polar Research, Japan.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetic field, magnetometers, magnetic intensity, magnetometer, fluxgate magnetometers, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, geomagnetic indices, zhongshan station, geomagnetic induction, geomagnetism, amd, cn, geomagnetic forecasts, amd, reference fields, geographic region, fluxgate, 
TITLE: Nutrients in water samples taken in Kongsfjorden in 2007. ABSTRACT: Five sites (k1,k2,k3,k4,k5) were set in Kongsfjorden in July 2007. Water samples were collected in different layers as 0m, 2m, 5m, 10m, 20m,30m,50m,75m,100m,150m and 200m. Nitrate, Nitrite, Phosphate and silicate were analysed using a nutrient autoanalyzer.. KEYWORD: sea water, polar, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, phosphate, nitrate, king_bay, nutrients, nitrite, ocean, oceans, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Global Seasonal Snow Classification System. ABSTRACT: The data file defines a global seasonal snow classification system. Based on the physical properties of the snow (depth, density, thermal conductivity, number of layers, degree of wetting, etc.), the world's seasonal snow covers were divided into six classes, plus classes for water and ice fields. Each class was defined by its physical properties, then empirically related to climate using three variables (precipitation, wind, and air temperature). A vegetation proxy was used for wind data: tall vegetation equals low wind, short vegetation equals high wind. The snow classification data are formatted into an array of integers, each value representing a 0.5-degree latitude by 0.5-degree longitude cell. The data set was developed and tested for the Northern Hemisphere. Results for the Southern Hemisphere are untested and have not been evaluated. The Southern Hemisphere suffers from a reduced density of meteorological data which may well have influenced the quality of the snow classification in that area. Also note that much of Antarctica is inappropriately defined as water (the vegetation data set did not extend that far south). A 0.5- x 0.5-degree land-sea mask could be used to set the Antarctica region to the ice classification if this region is of interest.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, prairie snow, seasonal snow cover, snow classification, alpine snow, ice, global, usa, noaa, maritime snow, arctic system science, usa, nsf, snow cover, opp9415386, taiga snow, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow density, polar, ephemeral snow, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, tundra snow, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss, laii, flux, water, adcc, arcss045, opp-9415386, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, snow wetness, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, snow depth, 
TITLE: COMET Case Study 036:Seattle Snowstorm at UCAR JOSS NOAA CODIAC. ABSTRACT: On Friday, February 16, 2001, a major snowstorm hit the Seattle area as an arctic front moved from Canada into Washington, interacting with warmer moist, Pacific air. Accumulations generally ranged from four to eight inches of snow across most of the lowlands of western Washington with a foot of snow over the hills around Seattle. For more information, see: "http:  www.joss.ucar.edu cgi-bin codiac projs?COMET_CASE_036" and "http:  www.comet.ucar.edu resources cases c36_16feb2001 ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, precipitation amount, precipitation rate, atmospheric temperature, thunderstorms, goes i-m sounder, arctic, eta model, goes i-m imager, usa, noaa, snowstorms, radial velocity, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, spectral, engineering, humidity, ground stations, ground-based observations, models, infrared wavelengths, atmospheric phenomena, surface air temperature, nexrad, atmospheric water vapor, radar imagery, radio detection and ranging, atmospheric winds, visible wavelengths, wsr-88d, water vapor, base reflectivity, snow, geographic region, washington, continent, radar reflectivity, visible imagery, geostationary operational environmental satellite 10, infrared imagery, next generation radar, air temperature, composite reflectivity, ncep model, cooperative program for operational meteorology, education, and training, united states of america, comet, radiosondes, surface winds, polar, earth science, ceos, atmospheric pressure, radar, nowrad, goes-10, storms, 
TITLE: Hydrographic Parameters from Fram Strait and Denmark Strait, 1998. ABSTRACT: This data set includes data for the following parameters: dissolved barium; bottom depth; pressure; temperature; salinity; dissolved oxygen; phosphate; siliceous acid; nitrate; nitrite; and oxygen isotopic composition of seawater. The data set is a compilation of hydrographic measurements made on bottle samples of seawater from CTD-rosette casts taken August-October, 1998, as part of the ARKTIS XIV 2 Polarstern Expedition. The Polarstern cruise covered the Nordic Seas from Fram Strait to Denmark Strait. Measurements were carried out at 282 stations. For complete details of the Polarstern expedition, including the itinerary, participating institutions, and methods of collection, refer to the cruise report from the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: dissolved oxygen, nsidc, arctic, water temperature, barium, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, denmark strait, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, opp-9815707, north america, mass spectrometers, alfred wegener institute for polar and marine research, oxygen, fram strait, ocean chemistry, ctd rosette, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, siliceous acid, northern europe, dissolved barium, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, nitrite, water depth, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, arctic system science, shelf-basin interactions, niskin bottles, north atlantic ocean, nitrate, arcss, oaii, sbi, greenland, usa, nsf, trace elements, rv polarstern, arcss105, nordic seas, arktis xiv, 2 polarstern expedition, mass spectrometry, ocean tracers, europe, polar, salinity, opp9815707, norwegian sea, earth science, phosphate, ceos, iceland, adcc, western arctic shelf basin interactions, water bottles, national science foundation, silicate, acoustic doppler current profiler, ocean platforms, atlantic ocean, sbi, adcp, oxygen isotopes, polarstern, 
TITLE: AFI 02 30_02 - The status of dark septate fungi in Antarctic plant and soil communities - Analysis of fungal cultures, plant and soil samples collected from the northern Antarctic Peninsula region in 2002 2003. ABSTRACT: This study investigated the status of dark septate ("DS") fungi in Antarctic plant and soil communities, with the aim of determining the abundance of DS fungi in plant roots and rhizoids, their taxonomic affinities and their symbiotic status. Abundances of fungal hyphae were recorded in roots and rhizoids, and fungi were isolated and identified. Sequencing of ITS (internal transcribed spacer) regions of rDNA indicated that some isolates share taxonomic affinities with fungi of known symbiotic status. Synthesis experiments assessed the effects of DS fungal isolates, including H. ericae, on the growth and nutrient balance of their host plants. Seeds of Deschampsia antarctica and Colobanthus quitensis were collected for use in ecophysiological experiments.. KEYWORD: biological classification, ecological dynamics, point thomas, backslope, lagoon islands, robert island, byers peninsula, coronation islands, shingle cove, factory cove, deschampsia antarctica, adelaide island, harmony points, rothera point, olivine points, livingston island, roots, biosphere, antarctica, seasonally frozen ground, hurd peninsula, symbiosis, rhizoids, frozen ground, amd, geographic region, nutrient balance, continent, mycorrhiza, colobanthus quitensis, lynch island, angiosperms (flowering plants), hannah point, mosses, hornworts, liverworts, coppermine peninsula, potter cove, damoy point, anchorage island, plants, signy, soils, mansfield points, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, dark septate fungi, berntsen point, ecophysiology, south shetland islands, fungi, species, population interactions, king george island, south orkney islands, amd, uk, leonie island, grytviken, microbial diversity, dark septate mycelia, nelson island, cephaloziella varians, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with high speed plankton collector by 9th CHINARE in 1992-1993. ABSTRACT: 248 planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean using high speed plankton collector. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Environmental Working Group Joint U.S.-Russian Atlas of the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: The Environmental Working Group (EWG) was established in June 1995 under the framework of the U.S.-Russian Joint Commission on Economic and Technological Cooperation. In January 1996, the EWG Arctic Climatology Group took on the task of compiling digital data on arctic regions to expand scientific understanding of the Arctic. This work resulted in a set of three atlases on CD-ROM for arctic oceanography, sea ice, and meteorology. The Environmental Working Group Joint U.S.- Russian Atlas of the Arctic Ocean was developed by specialists from the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan with Russian and U.S. partners. The Atlas consists of separate CD-ROM volumes for winter and summer. More than 1.3 million individual temperature and salinity observations collected from Russian and western drifting stations, ice breakers, and airborne expeditions were used to develop the products contained in the winter atlas. The primary products on the atlas are gridded mean fields for decadal periods (1950s,1960s, 1970s, 1980s) of temperature, salinity, density and dynamic height, Atlantic water layer depth, and temperature and salinity profiles and transects. Note that the original individual observations are not provided on the CD-ROM. The CD-ROMs are in HTML format and are free of charge. NSIDC also distributes the Arctic Climatology Project - EWG Arctic Meteorology and Climate Atlas and the EWG Joint U.S.-Russian Arctic Sea Ice Atlas free of charge. Order the CD-ROM as follows: If you reside in Russia: The Environmental Working Group agreement stipulates that the CD-ROMs will be distributed within Russia by the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) in St. Petersburg. If you reside in Russia, please request your copy of the CD-ROM from: Dr. Ivan Frolov, Director, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute St. Petersburg, Russia 199226 E-mail: aaricoop@aari.nw.ru Telephone: 812 157 6922 Fax: 812 352 2658. If you do not reside in Russia, you can place your order by contacting NSIDC User Services. Note that the 'Polar Science Center Hydrographic Climatology (PHC) ocean database (version 3.0)' is available from the Polar Science Center, Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington as of 18 April 2005. This is a global gridded data base with a high quality description of arctic seas achieved by merging data from several sources, including the Environmental Working Group Joint U.S.-Russian Atlas of the Arctic Ocean. Inquires may be sent to: Michael Steele Applied Physics Laboratory 1013 NE 40th St. Seattle, WA 98105. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, buoys, dynamic height field, nordic seas, potential density, polar, salinity, norwegian sea, aircraft, earth science, ceos, phc, greenland sea, ships, ewg, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, polar science center hydrographic climatology, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Digital Terrain Model Data for Northern and Western Canada. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes a digital terrain model at approximately 1km intervals, with separate records for land elevations, sea depths and freshwater depths. Provinces covered are Alberta and British Columbia, and the Yukon and Northwest Territories. Map projections are Lambert Conformal, Stereographic, Mercator, Universal Transverse Mercator, and Polyconic.Primarily used in the calculation of regional terrain corrections. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Rectangular Grid) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, terrain elevation, geomorphology, gcmd, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, northwest territories, north america, lakes, dtm, terrestrial hydrosphere, yukon territory, elevation, polar, hydrology, topography, earth science, ceos, geophysics, land surface, geodetics, gravity, alberta, canadian regions, surface water, canada, cgdi, water depth, canada, gravity, rivers, streams, terrain model, geographic region, 
TITLE: Measurement of time and space structure of atmospheric planetary waves in the polar mesosphere from Scott Base, South Pole Station and collaboration with other countries. ABSTRACT: The regular heating and cooling of the atmosphere drives energetic weather systems near the earth's surface. Some of this energy is propagated upwards into the middle atmosphere in a variety of wave modes, including the regular 12 hour and 24 hour tidal motion. Unlike ocean tides, which are driven by the gravitational forces of the sun and moon, the atmospheric tides are driven by the sun's daily heating of the atmosphere. At this latitude, the lack of solar energy during the winter considerably weakens these tides and the 12 hour component loses its distinctive periodicity. A study of the time and space structure of large scale waves in the polar mesosphere and the nature of these tidal variations, is investigated in a joint collaboration with international co-operative research projects (Russia, USA, Australia, Japan, Canada and UK). Such international co-operation is essential because these tidal and wave structures have a very large scale, much bigger than the Antarctic continent itself, and information is required from research stations spread throughout Antarctica. The waves of interest have periods of 10 hours to 3 days, which includes both inertia-gravity and Rossby wave modes. The spatial scale of the waves is determined from observations at the South Pole and Scott Base (78S). The South Pole observations were made with a Gabry-Perot interferometer - with one being installed at Arrival Heights in January 2002. The instrument measures the temperature and line of sight, wind speeds from atmospheric emissions from an altitude of about 85 - 90 kms during the polar night. The instrument scans around the pole at an elevation of about 30 and therefore provides an estimate of the waves zonal wave number. The Scott Base observations were recorded simultaneously with a medium-frequency, partial reflection wind radar that measures the vertical profile of the horizontal wind over Scott Base and therefore provides an estimates of the vertical wave number of the mode. The coherence between the South Pole and Scott Base is a measure of the meridional wave number and extent of the wave. The Scott Base radar cannot measure atmospheric temperature and the South Pole equipment cannot measure altitude so the two experiments are complementary.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, atmospheric waves, committee on space research, interhemispheric conjugacy effects in solar-terrestrial and aeronomy research, wind profiles, atmospheric tides, cawses, mesosphere, ground stations, ground-based observations, polar, earth science, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, amd, nz, climate and weather of the sun-earth system, amd, cospar, geographic region, vertical wind motion, icestar, scott base, 
TITLE: SAGE III Ozone Loss and Validation Experiment (SOLVE). ABSTRACT: The SAGE III Ozone Loss and Validation Experiment (SOLVE) is a measurement campaign designed to examine the processes which control polar to mid-latitude stratospheric ozone levels. SOLVE is an Arctic mission which was conducted over the course of the 1999-2000 winter. SOLVE employed aircraft, satellites, and balloons to examine the processes which control polar to mid-latitude stratospheric ozone levels. The mission also acquired correlative measurements needed to validate the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment (SAGE) III satellite mission and used these satellite measurements to help quantitatively assess high latitude ozone loss.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, halons, arctic ocean, fcas ii, light detection and ranging, arctic, ammonia, halocarbons and halogens, ho2, european remote sensing satellite-2, anticyclones, cyclones, nasa er-2, chlorine nitrate, atmospheric pressure measurements, sage iii, cfc-12, sweden, cfc-11, humidity, hno3, ground stations, douglas dc-8, bro, ground-based observations, nitrogen compounds, global ozone monitoring experiment, hydrogen chloride, whole air sampler, northern europe, microwave temperature profiler, atmospheric water vapor, scanning actinic flux spectroradiometer, atmospheric chemistry, photochemistry, er-2, lidar atmospheric sensing experiment, continent, aerosol particle properties, focused cavity aerosol spectrometer, dc-8, differential absorption lidar, falcon, co2, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, haloe, ers-2, polar ozone and aerosol measurement iii, greenland, hydrogen compounds, polar vortex, airborne tropospheric hydroxides sensor, europe, tropospheric ozone and tracers from commercial aircraft platforms, dial, polar, asur, ftir spectrometer, oxygen compounds, sage iii ozone loss and validation experiment, ch4, atmospheric pressure, ozone chemistry, photolysis rates, fcas, atmospheric temperature, ccl4, third european stratospheric experiment on ozone - 2000, focused cavity aerosol spectrometer ii, halon 1211, maspr, aerosol optical depth, thickness, photometers, nitrogen dioxide, no2, n-mass, polar stratospheric clouds, chemical ionization mass spectrometer, nondispersive infrared gas analyzer, spectroradiometers, north america, ndir gas analyzer, theseo, h2so4, totcap, stratospheric aerosol and gas experiment iii, cims, trace gases, trace species, o3, mtp, multiple-angle aerosol spectrometer probe, meteorological measurement system, meteor-3m, safs, gome, athos, ocean, water vapor, lase, chlorofluorocarbons, composition and photodissociative flux measurement, solve, methane, acats, geographic region, clono2, upper atmosphere research satellite, psc, aerosols, two-channel atmospheric tracer instrument, balloons, airborne chromatograph for atmospheric trace species, ozone, hcl, mms, scandinavia, noy, alias, airborne submillimeter radiometer, cpfm, lidar, ozone loss, aerosol extinction, nucleation-mode aerosol size spectrometer, carbon dioxide, bromine monoxide, halogen occultation experiment, earth science, was, airborne laser infrared absorption spectrometer, usa, nasa, hydroxyl, aerosol backscatter, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, argus, nasa earth resources-2, poam iii, atlantic ocean, uars, 
TITLE: met.no DAMOCLES sea ice operational ice concentration and sst. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ice concentration (fraction of ice), and sea surface temperature analysis from the met.no operational coupled ice-ocean model Arctic-20. Each file contains one month of daily analysis valid at 00 GMT. The quality of this data set will vary due to model upgrades, and should therefore in the long term, improve with time. New model-versions are tested semi-operationally before they are included in this data set.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, asimillation, sea_water_temperature, sea_ice_area_fraction, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, ice, forecast, sea, arctic, no, ipy, ocean, nordic seas, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: McMurdo Sound sea ice properties and temperatures. ABSTRACT: Metadata for ice temperatures and ice core properties collected in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica as part of the project "Measurements and Improved Parameterization of the Thermal Conductivity and Heat Flow through First-Year Sea Ice", OPP-0126007* --- The polar oceans' sea-ice cover strongly modifies ocean-atmosphere heat transfer. Most important, the ice cover thermally insulates the ocean, with the sea-ice thermal conductivity determining the magnitude of the heat flow for a given ice temperature gradient. Despite its importance (second only to ice albedo), large-scale sea-ice and climate models currently include overly simplistic parameterizations of the ice thermal conductivity that are likely to contribute significantly to errors in estimating ice production rates. As part of this project and in collaboration with colleagues from Victoria University Wellington in New Zealand, we have completed a set of field measurements in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, and Barrow, Alaska, from which the thermal conductivity of first-year sea ice has been derived as a function of ice microstructure, temperature (and temperature gradients), salinity and other environmental parameters. In order to arrive at in-situ, non-destructive estimates of brine volume and salinity, capacitance probes that provide data from which the complex permittivity of sea ice at 50 MHz can be derived have also been frozen in. Based on the permittivity data and laboratory experiments, we have been able to link dielectric properties and in-situ brine volume fractions and salinities. Dielectric mixture modeling and inversion of permittivity data thus allow for non-destructive monitoring of in-situ salinity and thermal property evolution. Analysis of thermistor string data from field sites in Barrow and McMurdo has allowed for a derivation of ice thermal conductivity. In conjunction with the permittivity data and microstructural studies the relative importance of diffusive and convective heat transfer in first-year sea ice has been assessed. Finally, the information gathered as part of this project has been synthesized and led to an improved parameterization scheme of thermal conductivity in large-scale sea ice and climate models. Data provided here have been collected as part of the project "Measurements and Improved Parameterization of the Thermal Conductivity and Heat Flow through First-Year Sea Ice", OPP-0126007* and include measurements of temperature and various ice properties at selected sites in first-year and multiyear sea ice in McMurdo Sound, Antarctica in the years 2002-2004. Data from earlier installations of thermistor chains for measurements of ice temperature carried out by the New Zealand team have also been included. Data files are in Microsoft Excel format, with individual worksheets for specific cores or temperature data sets. Detailed information and comments on data sampling location etc. are provided in the files. Ice core data (Filename: MMcoredata_xx.xls): Sea-ice cores were obtained with a 10-cm diameter corer and ice thickness was measured at the site with a tape measure placed alongside the entire length of core. On-site, ice temperature was measured, typically at 5 to 10 cm intervals, by drilling holes (ca. 5 mm) into the center of the core and inserting a temperature probe (precision 0.05 K, accuracy <0.1 K) while covering the core with a light thermal shield. The core was then sawed into 5 to 10 cm segments and core segments were transferred into sealed plastic containers to minimize loss of brine. Salinity of samples was determined with a YSI Model 30 Conductivity sonde (measurement error <0.02 or <1 % of the bulk salinity, whichever is larger). Stable isotope (delta-18-O) measurements were carried out at the Alaska Stable Isotope Facility, University of Alaska Fairbanks (Dr. M. Wooller). Stable-isotope measurements were performed on a Delta+XL Mass Spectrometer (H2-CO equilibration, measured against VSMOW) at a precision of better than 0.5 ppt (with standard deviation between replicate runs of three samples below 0.4 ppt). Ice temperature data (Filename: XX_tempdata_yyyy_uuu[].xls): Here yyyy is year, and uuu is university; [ ] denotes additional qualifiers in some cases. There are descriptive headers in each file. All measurements were made in landfast first-year ice, except in 2003, where MY in filenames denotes deployment in multiyear ice. Temperature measurements were carried out with thermistors (Omega #44031), wired into a Campbell CR10 data logger (precision better than 0.06 K). An important aspect of the experimental set-up is the mounting of the thermistors. The thermistor arrays (5-10 cm spacing) consisted of a separate wire duct, embedded in a polycarbonate-polyethylene matrix of thermal conductivity somewhat lower than that of ice, with the actual thermistors (embedded in a small glass bead) mounted approximately 5 cm away from the duct on a thin support in direct contact with the ice matrix. Temperatures were calculated from resistivity data based on resistivity-temperature dependence relationships provided by the manufacturer for individual thermistors. Also, where noted in data files, thermistors were calibrated in an ice bath at 0.00 &#730;C before deployment, with a one-point correction of the resultant temperature offset made (typically 0.1 K or less). Positions of thermsitors are recorded in meters, with ice surface at time of deploymeny z = 0 and positive values into ice. Time is recorded as Julian Day of year. As noted in the relevant data file headers, some VUW measurements made use of YSI 55031 thermistors and custom-built loggers (with a temperature precision of better than 1 x 10-4 K). VUW arrays were of a very different design, and thermistors were housed inside thin-walled stainless steel tubes with total thermal conductance closely matched to the ice. A comparison of the different designs of the VUW and UAF arrays is made in Pringle et al. (2007 submitted).. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, arctic, ice temperature, agriculture, temperature loggers, usa, nsf, isotopes, sea ice, vegetable products, heat flux, polar, salinity, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, antarctica, plant commodities, frozen ground, ice depth, thickness, amd, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Pinniped Tagging Records; NMML. ABSTRACT: The Pinniped Tagging Records are a digital data set which is a compilation of tags and brands applied to fur seals, sea lions, and harbor seals in Alaskan and Siberian waters. The system is still under development.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, fur, ecological dynamics, arctic, fur seal, aedd, usa, noaa, coastal waters of alaska and siberia, alaska coast, noaa, north america, alaska, pinniped, alaska and siberian coastal waters, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, north pacific ocean, coastal alaska and siberia and bering sea, mammal population, biosphere, regional threatened species, nmml, tags, animals, vertebrates, coastal alaska, alaska directory, coast, ships, mammals, ocean, sea lion, animal, gosic, geographic region, chukchi sea, continent, marine, siberian coastal waters, international waters, united states of america, mammal, coastal habitat, marine mammal, wildlife, bering sea, polar, pacific ocean, asia, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, pacific, environment, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, endangered species, siberia, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: The Reid Isobath Set, Digitized from GEBCO Charts for the Pacific (N&S), Atlantic (N&S), Indian, Arctic and Mediterranean. ABSTRACT: This data set provides a stream of coordinates describing a specific isobath as seen in map view. This differs from the usual arrangement that provides depth at ocean positions and requires intensive contouring. The scheme provides a simple, economical way to put bathymetric contours on maps of various types and scales. To facilitate file handling the world is divided into 8 ocean areas, with the complete set requiring about 6.5 mbytes of storage. The originators (at Scripps) use the data to prepare working maps for the study of global ocean circulation. Maps for publication are still prepared by hand using the working maps as a guide. Typically only one isobath is plotted on a map; when more are plotted, the isobaths are at 2-3 thousand meter intervals. Method of preparation: A. Prepare tracings from each of the 18 GEBCO maps B. Digitize the tracings on a (balky) digitizing tablet C. Convert the x-y digitizing coordinates to latitude and longitude D. Compress the lat-lon positions into an incremental format E. Combine the maps into 8 ocean areas. Known Problem Areas: A. The Pacific around Panama. B. The area off Argentina where Gebcos 512 and 516 overlap. Glitches: We (at Scripps) have plotted all the isobaths dozens of times so we know about all the mistakes. Displayed adjacent isobaths (eg. 1000 and 1500) will occasionally overlap. We really did try to make it perfect, but if you could see what we worked with you would understand why we can live with the mistakes and why we have little intention of fixing any more. Structure: Each ocean area contains one or more of the 5th edition Gebco bathymetry charts and contains 9-19 separate files, each containing a particular isobath. North Pacific -- 502,503,506,507 South Pacific -- 510,511,514,515 North Atlantic -- 501,504,508 South Atlantic -- 512,516 Indian -- portion 505,509,513 Mediterranean -- portion 505 Arctic -- 517 Antarctic -- 518 Unpacking the data: All the data is archived in character form (formatted) and is compressed using a simple incremental scheme. The expansion scheme can be easily gleaned from the fortran subroutine included in the distribution. This subroutine (CONBAT) comes directly from our mapping program 'Lamprey'. Also included is a program (SUBSET) that can make subsets of a larger file based on an input latitude - longitude window.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, arctic, sea floor, global, isobath, polar, vertical location, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, gebco, usa, nasa, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, reid, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Velocity and direction of icebergs along the underway of Xuelong during the 19th CHINARE in 2002 2003. ABSTRACT: This data set is records of velocity and direction of icebergs along the R V Xuelong in the areas of Ross Sea, Great Wall Bay, Wedell Sea and the front of Amery Ice Shelf.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, icebergs, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, glaciers, ice sheets, radio detection and ranging, radar, ships, ocean, amd, cn, ross sea, amd, geographic region, iceberg movement, 
TITLE: Climatic Atlas of the Barents Sea 1998. ABSTRACT: The time and space distribution of 74,256 ocean stations (temperature, salinity, and oxygen) occupied in the Barents Sea during 1898-1993 is presented on this CD-ROM . These data are recorded in a format designed for use in electronic spreadsheets and or databases. Monthly maps defining the station distribution over the Barents Sea are given for every year. Monthly mean fields of temperature and salinity distribution for the depths 0, 30, 50, 100, and 200 meters, with a grid distance of 10'x30' are plotted using objective analysis techniques. A description of the summer and winter seasons is given in terms of the spatial-temporal variability of thermohaline characteristics of the Barents Sea. The Atlas was written in Russian and translated into English. The authors have attempted to retain the original character of the text as it was translated into English. It is published in both Russian and English. The cited website is also accessible in both Russian and English.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, salinity, ocean chemistry, idn_node gsfc, noaa, nesdis, nodc, earth science, phosphate, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, nitrate, usa, noaa, nutrients, temperature - surface water, earth science information partners program, silicate, ocean, temperature - water, oceans, salinity, density, esip, dissolved gases, oxygen, oxygen - dissolved gas, barents sea, 
TITLE: Alaska North Slope 100 m Digital Elevation Model (DEM). ABSTRACT: This data set is a 100-m resolution digital elevation model (DEM) for the Brooks Range and the North Slope of Alaska. The DEM was created by merging 100 National Elevation Dataset DEM tiles for areas of Alaska north of 67 degrees north latitude. A small area of Canada, derived from the global GTOPO30 DEM, is also included. The resulting DEM is in the Alaska Albers conical equal area projection, using the North American Datum of 1927 (NAD27). Data are available in GeoTIFF, Arc INFO grid, and binary Band Interleaved by Line (BIL) formats, and are accessible via ftp.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terrain elevation, bil, digital elevation model, arctic system science, human dimensions of the arctic system, arctic, geotiff, usa, noaa, ned, dem, arctic system science, north america, alaska, earth resources observation systems, north slope, terrestrial hydrosphere, barrow, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, topography, office of polar programs, national science foundation, glaciers, ice sheets, landforms, coastal alaska, topographical relief, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, continent, brooks range, arc, info, geographic information systems, gis, national elevation dataset, usa, nsf, arcss301, united states of america, beaufort sea coastline, relief, dtm, polar, digital mapping, digital topographic model, opp-0100120, digital terrain model, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, raster, ceos, land surface, contours, adcc, opp0100120, arcss, harc, chukchi sea coastline, eros, 
TITLE: Digital Bathymetric Data Base 5-minute (DBDB5) from the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office (NAVOCEANO). ABSTRACT: The "Digital Bathymetric Data Base 5 minute" (DBDB5) was assembled by the US Naval Oceanographic Office in the early 1980's from computer interpolation of existing contour maps of ocean basins. It is included in ETOPO2 to fill in a few areas in the Antarctic that are too for south to be covered by the satellite-based bathymetry. Along with several land data bases, DBDB5 was incorporated into a full worldwide 5 minute elevation grid, called ETOPO5. For more information about the ETOPO5 5-minute gridded elevation data see "http:  www.ngdc.noaa.gov mgg global etopo5.HTML". The ETOPO5 data set is superseded by the ETOPO2 2-minute data set (see "http:  www.ngdc.noaa.gov mgg fliers 01mgg04.html" ). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, commercial, digital elevation model, global bathymetry, navy, arctic, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, open-source project for a network data access protocol, dem, mediterranean sea, earth science information partners program, global ocean, seafloor topography, terrain, vertical location, polar, models, amd, us, southern ocean, global ocean data assimilation experiment, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, dods, bathymetry, surface model, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, distributed oceanographic data system, godae, 
TITLE: Integrated Method to Estimate the Carbon Budget of Forests. ABSTRACT: The integrated method to estimate the carbon budget of forests is a research project of scientists at the European Forest Institute (EFI) and the Finnish Forest Research Institute (Metla). This project, scheduled from 2001 to 2004, is a part of the Research Programme on Sustainable Use of Natural Resources (SUNARE) coordinated by the Academy of Finland. Background and Objectives: -The importance of forests to atmospheric carbon dioxide and international political climate change processes have created a timely need for reliable and transparent estimates of carbon budgets of forests. -The research objective of this project is to develop a new integrated method for calculating such estimates across Europe. -The expected results will improve the applicability of both forest inventories and eddy covariance measurements in forest carbon studies by improving the most critical uncertainties of these methods. The applicability of forest inventories will be improved by more accurate biomass estimates, integrated soil carbon estimates and demonstrated comparability with other methods. The Integrated Method to be developed will provide a new means to extrapolate eddy covariance results over large regions. [Summary provided by European Forest Institute.]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic, vegetation, environmental assessments, agriculture, carbon, forest carbon budget, human dimensions, forest science, soils, europe, polar, carbon dioxide, carbon budget, earth science, environmental impacts, carbon cycle, usa, nasa, forest products, commodities, biosphere, forest management, sustainability, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, forest conservation, finnish forest, geographic region, 
TITLE: Ice analyses and forecasts for the Arctic, Antarctic, and Great Lakes from the NAVY NOAA Joint Ice Center. ABSTRACT: The NAVY NOAA Joint Ice Center (JIC) produces a global sea ice analysis each week. The Arctic analysis is divided into West and East parts. The West Arctic analysis chart extends from the Canadian Archipelago west to the Laptev Sea; the East Arctic covers the remaining area. The Antarctic analysis is presented on one chart. Ice analyses are primarily prepared from satellite imagery (NOAA's Polar Orbiting Satellites, AVHRR in the visual and infrared bands, and the Defense Meterological Satellite Program's SSM I, passive microwave sensor), ice reconnaissance flight data (radar and visual) and some ship and shore station reports. The JIC regularly exchanges data with other ice centers around the world. Seven-day sea ice forecasts are produced weekly for the Arctic. Thirty-day forecast charts for the Arctic are produced and updated every two weeks. Antarctic forecasts are limited to the shipping season to periods of seven days or less. The JIC produces larger scale analyses of the Alaskan and Great Lakes regions in support of the National Weather Service (NWS) offices in Anchorage and Cleveland. Seasonal Outlooks are prepared about 90 days in advance of the shipping season for the Alaskan North Slope, Baffin Bay David Strait and Western Ross Sea McMurdo Sound regions. The two northern hemisphere outlooks are issued in May and the southern hemisphere outlook is issued in October. A bound volume containing all the weekly Arctic analyses is produced every year (usually available in for the preceeding calendar year) and every other year for the Antarctic (also usually available in June). Also, though JIC is not a data archiving unit (the National Snow and Ice Center Data Center (NSIDC) and National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) archive some JIC products), JIC has a large holding of TIROS N data for the preceeding decade. The JIC currently telefaxes weekly sea ice analyses and 30-day forecast products to several hundred subscribers. 7-day and shorter range forecasts are normally sent directly to users in the field via AUTODIN message or INMARSAT. Outlooks are mailed except for a summary posted to the POLAR and ARCTIC.LOGISTS bulletin boards maintained by OMNET, initiated in 1990. All JIC products are available free of charge, except users are expected to bear the cost of extraordinary means of communication, such as INMARSAT calls.. KEYWORD: ice extent, advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, arctic ocean, idn_node gsfc, navy, noaa jic, ice edge, ice forecasts, television infrared observation satellite-n, navy, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, noaa poes, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, lake ice, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, usa, noaa, sea surface, united states of america, ice edges, north america, sea ice, tiros-n, lakes, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, avhrr, polar, vertical location, amd, us, southern ocean, great lakes, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, ssm, i, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, ice sheets, navy, noaa_jic, ocean, dod, oceans, amd, geographic region, ice predictions, 
TITLE: Near Real-Time SSM I EASE-Grid Daily Global Ice Concentration and Snow Extent. ABSTRACT: The Near Real-Time SSM I EASE-Grid Daily Global Ice Concentration and Snow Extent product (Near Real-Time Ice and Snow Extent, NISE) provides daily, global near real-time maps of sea ice concentrations and snow extent. The National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) creates the NISE product using passive microwave data from the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) F13 Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I). These data are not suitable for time series, anomalies, or trends analyses. They are meant to provide a best estimate of current ice and snow conditions based on information and algorithms available at the time the data are acquired. Near real-time products are not intended for operational use in assessing sea ice conditions for navigation. Sea ice concentration and snow extent maps are provided in two 25 km azimuthal, equal-area projections: the Southern Hemisphere 25 km low resolution (Sl) and Northern Hemisphere 25 km low resolution (Nl) Equal-Area Scalable Earth-Grids (EASE-Grids). The NISE product is updated daily using the best available data from the past five days. Data are in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format and browse files are in GIF and HDF formats. HDF-EOS data files are available from 04 May 1995 through the present. Data in both formats are updated daily and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, ice, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, northern hemisphere, ecs, snow cover, sea ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, remote sensing, antarctica, passive microwave, earth observing system data information system, global change, snow, southern hemisphere, oceans, amd, geographic region, continent, sea ice concentration, hdf-eos, hierarchical data format, special sensor microwave, imager, sea ice extent, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, snow, ice, antarctic, gridded data, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, usa, nasa, ssm, i, daac, nasa, snow extent, near real-time, esip, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, ice concentration, nise, 
TITLE: Alaska Permafrost Drillhole Temperature Logs (PTDAK); U. Alaska Geophysical Institute. ABSTRACT: This data set (PTDAK) includes handwritten temperature logs from drill holes in permafrost. The time series consists of temperatures versus time for active layer and permafrost. Data are stored on ERROM's. Transect from Prudoe Bay to Glenallen, ANWR and other sites in Alaska.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, ground water, aedd, geology, stratigraphy, united states of america, north america, alaska, geography, temperature, soil temperature, ground stations, soils, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, logs, us, polar, hydrology, earth science, cryosphere, time series, land surface, groundwater, usa, nasa, water, surface water, alaska directory, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, aquifer, thermal regime, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Cumulative Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Canadian Wildland Fire Information System - Fire Weather Index. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Wildland Fire Information System, Fire Weather Index, consists of six components that account for the effects of fuel moisture and wind on fire behavior. The first three components are fuel moisture codes and are numerical ratings of the moisture content of litter and other fine fuels, the average moisture content of loosely compacted organic layers of moderate depth, and the average moisture content of deep, compact organic layers. The remaining three components are fire behavior indexes which represent the rate of fire spread, the fuel available for combustion, and the frontal fire intensity; their values rise as the fire danger increases. Fine Fuel Moisture Code (FFMC) - The FFMC is a numerical rating of the moisture content of litter and other cured fine fuels. This code is an indicator of the relative ease of ignition and flammability of fine fuel. Duff Moisture Code (DMC) - The DMC is a numerical rating of the average moisture content of loosely compacted organic layers of moderate depth. This code gives an indication of fuel consumption in moderate duff layers and medium-size woody material. Drought Code (DC) - The DC is a numerical rating of the average moisture content of deep, compact, organic layers. This code is a useful indicator of seasonal drought effects on forest fuels, and amount of smoldering in deep duff layers and large logs. Initial Spread Index (ISI) - The ISI is a numerical rating of the expected rate of fire spread. It combines the effects of wind and the FFMC on rate of spread without the influence of variable quantities of fuel. Buildup Index (BUI) - The BUI is a numerical rating of the total amount of fuel available for combustion that combines the DMC and the DC. Fire Weather Index (FWI) - The FWI is a numerical rating of fire intensity that combines the ISI and the BUI. It is suitable as a general index of fire danger throughout the forested areas of Canada.To provide a numerical rating of relative wildland fire potential on a daily basis, generally from April to October of each year. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, fire dynamics, vegetation, air temperature, nunavut, northwest territories, forest composition, vegetation structure, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, humidity, yukon territory, fire ecology, polar, atmospheric phenomena, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, biosphere, quebec, alberta, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, canada, drought, water vapor, prince edward island, new brunswick, litter characteristics, deciduous vegetation, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Weather data at the Great Wall Station, Antarctica during the 22ed CHINARE in 2005. ABSTRACT: The antarctic Great Wall weather station of China, which was set up in 1985, is located on King George Island,its station number is 89058.The Great Wall weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time 01,07,13,19),and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items includes clouds, visibility, weather phenomenon, wind direction, wind speed, temperature, humidity, air pressure, sunlight, soil temperature, precipitation etc. And now, it also does site weather forecast for science research. This dataset is data of 2005.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, sunshine, wind profiles, air temperature, clouds, precipitation, amd, cn, humidity, air quality, polar, visibility, fixed observation stations, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, antarctica, automated weather system, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, amd, geographic region, aws, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Edge Location and Extent in the Russian Arctic, 1933-2006. ABSTRACT: The Sea Ice Edge Location and Extent in the Russian Arctic, 1933-2006 data are derived from sea ice charts from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, Russia. Provided here are sea ice edge locations, where identifiable, in each AARI ice chart and monthly and seasonal mean sea ice extents for each of the marginal seas in the Russian Arctic derived from these ice edges. The original AARI charts were constructed primarily to assist operations in the Northern Sea Route. The digital version, from which this data set is derived, is titled Sea Ice Charts of the Russian Arctic in Gridded Format, 1933-2006. Spatial and temporal coverage vary. There is generally a chart every 10 days. However, the early part of the series only covers summer; in later years, coverage is year round. Sea ice edge position is given in decimal degrees (latitude at every degree longitude from about 30 W to 150 W going from west to east) for each of the 2877 ice charts. Landfast ice edge, multiyear ice edge, and pack ice edge data are available. Total ice cover and multiyear ice cover mean sea ice extent data, for each year, month, and marginal sea, is available as well, along with companion error statistic files.. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, arctic ocean, sea ice extent, usa, noaa, visible spectrometer, buoys, side-looking airborne radar, russia, ice edges, sea ice, visual observations, ground stations, europe, radiometers, barents sea, meteorological stations, satellites, microwave radiometer, mr, sar, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, russian arctic, synthetic aperture radar, eastern europe, ice chart, infrared radiometers, ocean, oceans, aari, chukchi sea, slar, 
TITLE: Recurring Spring Leads and Landfast Ice in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas, 1993-2004. ABSTRACT: In the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas, the most significant sea ice anomalies have occurred in the summer ice extent (Eicken et al. 2006). In addition, there has been a considerable decline in the multiyear ice pack in this region (Eicken et al. 2006). To help understand these anomalies, this data set contains information on recurring spring leads and landfast ice extent in this area. This data set maps and documents the spatial and temporal distribution of recurring leads and landfast ice off the coast of northern Alaska in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas (Eicken et al. 2006). The leads data span from 1993 through 2004 and are based on visible and infrared Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) data onboard the NOAA 12, 14, 15, 16, and 17 satellites. The landfast ice extent data extend from 1996 through 2004 and are based on RADARSAT-1 Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery. The data are available in a number of formats including ArcGIS geodatabases (.mdb), shapefiles (.shp), ArcGIS grids (.adf), ArcGIS grids in ArcInfo interchange format (.e00), and GeoTIFFs (.tif). Statistics are also provided in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets (.xls) and metadata in several formats including XML (.xml), SGML (.sgml), HTML (.html), and ASCII text (.txt). Quick-view browse images in JPEG (.jpg) format are provided for the shapefiles, grids, and GeoTIFFs. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: ice extent, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, visible imagery, sar imagery, arctic, sea ice extent, noaa-17, infrared, noaa-16, radarsat imagery, noaa-15, usa, noaa, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-16, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-15, noaa, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-17, noaa-14, ice edges, noaa-12, sea ice, radarsat-1, avhrr, polar, sar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, synthetic aperture radar, ocean, landfast ice, leads, oceans, geographic region, chukchi sea, 
TITLE: Met Office - Global Radiosonde Data (1997 - Present). ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of radiosonde data from stations worldwide. Stations are categorised into 7 regions: Africa, Asia, South America, North and Central America, South-West Pacific, Europe, and Antarctica, respectively. A clickable world map is available to view worldwide radiosonde station lists. European radiosonde data for the period 1990 to June 1998 are also available. The data comprise vertical profiles of temperature, dew-point temperature, wind speed and wind direction at standard and significant pressure levels. The standard pressure levels are 1000, 925, 850, 700, 500, 400, 300, 250, 200, 150, 100, 70, 50, 30, 20 and 10 mb. Significant pressure levels are calculated according to the Met. Office criteria and constitute levels at which significant events occur in the profile for example turning points. The period of coverage is 17 December 1996 to present, updated weekly. Stations conduct ascents up to four times daily at the synoptic hours of 00, 06, 12, 18 GMT. [Summary Extracted from the BADC Home Page]. KEYWORD: st martin, belarus, western europe, japan, boundary layer winds, south africa, western pacific ocean, canary islands, atmospheric pressure measurements, estonia, dominican republic, philippines, madeira, mauritius, georgia, republic, mali, southeastern asia, wind speed, switzerland, wind direction, vietnam, australia, atmospheric water vapor, middle east, turkey, ukraine, austria, continent, global, air temperature, hungary, greenland, esa, esrin, greece, palau, cyprus, colombia, southern ocean, pacific ocean, syria, libya, atmospheric pressure, burkina faso, eastern europe, norway, upper level winds, kiribati, bulgaria, south korea, jamaica, thailand, french southern territories, france, ascension island, senegal, namibia, ocean, central america, canada, french polynesia, indian ocean, chile, oman, brazil, germany, india, malaysia, peru, southern europe, st helena, trinidad and tobago, denmark, hawaiian islands, sri lanka, belize, radiosondes, vertical location, kuwait, slovenia, zimbabwe, asia, eastern asia, micronesia, china, israel, atlantic ocean, bangladesh, ireland, atmosphere, polynesia, arctic, poland, western asia, united arab emirates, marshall islands, caribbean, moldova, northern hemisphere, russia, sweden, north korea, south america, madagascar, melanesia, south atlantic ocean, caribbean sea, cape verde, africa, christmas island, iran, falkland islands, northern europe, indonesia, southcentral asia, puerto rico, gibraltar, atmospheric winds, curacao, ethiopia, st eustatius, macquarie island, eastern africa, saudi arabia, spain, mauritania, algeria, american samoa, boundary layer, st maarten, north atlantic ocean, cameroon, portugal, costa rica, lithuania, st barthelemy, geopotential height, panama, lebanon, mongolia, northern africa, europe, italy, finland, polar, sudan, norwegian sea, fiji, singapore, mexico, samoa, tunisia, bahamas, central pacific ocean, uganda, gabon, atmospheric temperature, western africa, niger, pakistan, yemen, cayman islands, argentina, north america, jordan, slovakia, belgium, netherlands, guam, central africa, antarctica, croatia, south pacific ocean, southern hemisphere, amd, brunei darussalam, geographic region, morocco, altitude, bermuda, british isles, tristan da cunha, guadeloupe, central african republic, french guiana, romania, troposphere, new zealand, mediterranean sea, cocos islands, czech republic, scandinavia, united states of america, latvia, kazakhstan, stratosphere, cote d'ivoire, egypt, australia, new zealand, faeroe islands, united kingdom, earth science, ceos, iceland, station height, tuvalu, reunion, amd, uk, barbados, new caledonia, dew point temperature, southern africa, 
TITLE: State of the Cryosphere. ABSTRACT: The Cryospheric regions, or regions where water is found in solid form, are among the most sensitive to temperature change. Average temperatures in snow and ice-covered areas typically remain below zero Celsius much of the year. Unlike other substances found on Earth, ice and snow exist relatively close to their melting point and frequently change phase from solid to liquid and back again. Consequently, consistent and prolonged warming trends should result in observable changes to the Earth's cryosphere. State of the Cryosphere provides readers with a look at climate variability with regard to snow cover, sea ice, glaciers and the related parameter sea level are discussed. In all cases scientists attempt to monitor both the areal extent and mass of these snow and ice bodies. Certainly areal extent is easier to determine than mass. Various forms of remote sensing, from both aircraft and satellite, allows scientists to look down on surfaces at varying spatial scales and over time to determine if the snow or ice covered area is expanding or contracting. Long-term monitoring includes looking at the areal extent of snow cover and sea ice as well as changes in area and mass of mountain glaciers. In all cases, regardless of parameter or measurement method, the amount of snow and ice have been decreasing over the past several decades.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, nimbus-7, snow cover, north america, sea ice, electronic scanning microwave radiometer, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, nimbus-5, albedo, gtos, snow energy balance, remote sensing, freeze, thaw, global sea level, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, passive microwave, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, gosic, geographic region, g3os, glaciers, continent, mass balance, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, sea ice extent, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, smmr, global, sea level rise, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, greenland, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, snow, ice, polar, tems, amd, us, southern ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, climate, usa, nasa, snow, ice temperature, ssm, i, coastal processes, snow extent, terminus, esip, snow water equivalent, esmr, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, sea level, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Planktic Foraminifer Census Data from Northwind Ridge Cores PI-88-AR P3, PI-88-AR P7, and PI-88-AR P9, Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Abstract: The U.S. Geological Survey recovered 9 piston cores from the Northwind Ridge in the Canada Basin of the Arctic Ocean from a cruise of the USCGC Polar Star during 1988. Preliminary analysis of the cores suggests sediments deposited on Northwind Ridge preserve a detailed record of glacial and interglacial cycles for the last few hundred-thousand to one million years. This report includes quantitative data on foraminifers and selected sediment size-fraction data in 98 samples from Northwind Ridge core PI-88AR P3, 51 samples from core PI-88-AR P7 and 117 samples from core PI-88-AR P9. Purpose: These foraminifer data will be the basis for future interpretive studies of the climate history of the Arctic Ocean.. KEYWORD: carbonate sediments, microfossils, solid earth, arctic ocean, foraminifers, biological classification, sediment corers, arctic, paleoclimate, canada basin, biogenic sediments, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, protists, sediment grain size, tectonics, amoeboids, marine sediments, polar, paleoceanography, earth science, ceos, sedimentation, sedimentary textures, sedimentary rocks, northwind ridge, foraminifera, ocean, varve deposits, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, bioturbation, sediments, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Map. ABSTRACT: The Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Map (CAVM) defines the spatial extent of dominant vegetation in terms of the dominant plant growth forms and physiognomy. Mapped vegetation extends south to the treeline, which varies with longitude. Spatial coverage is 60 to 90 N, -180 to 180 W. The map is available in Adobe PDF format, ESRI Arc Info and Shapefile format, among others.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, polar, circumpolar arctic vegetation map, maps, ggd, arctic, earth science, ceos, vegetation, vegetation cover, vegetation species, usa, noaa, biosphere, gis, geographic region, 
TITLE: Thaw Depth, Toolik Lake, Alaska, 1995 and 1996. ABSTRACT: Thaw depths were measured at the Toolik Lake Field Station during the summers of 1995 and 1996. Measurements were made on control plots, plots from which snow was removed, and plots from which snow was removed before the installation of heating cables at 10-cm depth. Plots with heating cables were heated two hours per day. Thaw depths were measured at tussock and intertussock sites within each plot using a steel probe. Data are available in ASCII and MS Excel formats via ftp.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, thaw depths, arctic, opp9615845, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss, laii, itex, opp-9321626, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, probes, opp9321626, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, toolik lake, adcc, arcss038, national science foundation, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, thaw depth, geographic region, opp-9615845, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Paleocene Mollusc Stable Isotope Data. ABSTRACT: The data consist of oxygen and carbon isotope measurement of carbonate samples microdrilled from sequential growth increments of 2 specimens of the bivalve Camptochlamys alaskensis. The samples were collected by L. Marincovich, Jr., from the Prince Creek Formation at Ocean Point, North Slope, Alaska, Lat. 70.0833N, Long. 151.3667W. At the time of publication (1996), the age of the samples was estimated to be Danian. Late Paleocene high-latitude (80 deg N) Arctic Ocean shallow-marine temperatures are estimated from molluscan d18O time series. Sampling of individual growth increments of two specimens of the bivalve Camptochlamys alaskensis provides a high-resolution record of shell stable isotope composition. The heavy carbon isotopic values of the specimens support a late Paleocene age for the youngest marine beds of the Prince Creek Formation exposed near Ocean Point, Alaska. The oxygen isotopic composition of regional freshwater runoff is estimated from the mean d18O value of two freshwater bivalves collected from approximately coeval fluviatile beds. Over a 30 - 340 range of salinity, values assumed to represent the tolerance of C. alaskensis, the mean annual shallow-marine temperature recorded by these individuals is between 11 deg and 22 deg C. These values could represent maximum estimates of the mean annual temperature because of a possible warm-month bias imposed on the average d18O value by slowing or cessation of growth in winter months. The amplitude of the molluscan d18O time series probably records most of the seasonality in shallow-marine temperature. The annual temperature range indicated is approximately 6 deg C, suggesting very moderate high-latitude marine temperature seasonality during the late Paleocene. Based on analogy with modern Chlamys species, C. alaskensis probably inhabited water depths of 30-50 meters. The seasonal temperature range derived from d18O is therefore likely to be damped relative to the full range of annual sea-surface temperatures. High-resolution sampling of molluscan shell material across inferred growth bands represents an important proxy record of seasonality of marine and freshwater conditions applicable at any latitude. If applied to other regions and time periods, the approach used here would contribute substantially to the paleoclimate record of seasonality.. KEYWORD: microfossils, mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, isotope, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, paleogene, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, paleo start date 65.5 ma, paleo stop date 61.7 ma, paleocene, polar, stable isotopes, upper paleocene, earth science, ceos, d18o, phanerozoic, d13c, prince creek formation, ocean, danian, late paleocene, ocean point, alaska, geographic region, carbon isotopes, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Canada Water Aerodrome Supplement. ABSTRACT: The Canada Water Aerodrome Supplement (WAS) is a publication that provides tabulated, textual data and graphical information in support of Canadian VFR charts. The booklet contains an Aerodrome Facilities Directory of all water aerodromes shown on Canadian VFR charts. Also listed are communications stations data, radio aids and other data supplemental to the VFR Charts. This publication is revised and reissued annually and is available in bilingual format only.Used by pilots to supplement information of all water aerodromes shown on Canadian VFR charts. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Aerodrome Identifiers, Radio Navigation Aid Indicators, Flight Information Regions Identicators Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Nortn American Datum 1983 Ellipsoid Name: World Geodetic System 1984 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, terrain elevation, navigation aids, mid-latitude, manitoba, magnetic declination, arctic, british columbia, none, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, reference systems, topography, nova scotia, natural hazards, geodetics, gravity, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, buildings, new brunswick, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, altitude, gcmd, nunavut, northwest territories, aeronautical charts, communications, united states of america, saskatchewan, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, transportation, meteorological hazards, prince edward island, infrastructure, 
TITLE: DMSP Operational Linescan System (OLS) Analog Imagery. ABSTRACT: NSIDC archives analog imagery collected by the U. S. Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP). DMSP is a system of near-polar orbiting satellites providing data in optical and microwave spectral bands for operational use by the Air Force. The data are visible-band (0.4 to 0.1 micrometer) and thermal infrared-band (10.5 to 12.5 micrometer) hard-copy positive transparency images. Frequent global coverage (up to four times daily) has proven useful for observing changes in snow and ice boundaries on regional to global scales, as well as for a wide variety of meteorological and cloud studies. DMSP is the only meteorological satellite program to operate visible-band sensors at night. Although collected sporadically, there are large amounts of nighttime imagery, useful for studies of man-made and natural lighting, and for use in lightning occurrence studies. The operational scheme consists of two satellites in near-polar (inclination of 98.7 degrees) sun-synchronous orbits at 450 nautical miles (825 km) altitude. Orbital period is 102 minutes and the equatorial node steps around the equator at 25 degree longitude increments on successive orbits. By use of the two satellites, observations are made at near local noon and midnight, and at dawn and dusk. Each satellite carries an operational linescan system (OLS) which collects data continuously along a cross track scan 1600 nautical miles (3000 km) wide. The imagery collection at NSIDC consists of three positive transparency products produced by the Air Force. Currently, the film collection is being transferred off-site for storage. Limited user services will be maintained. Custom photographic prints, negatives or transparencies are available on request. Prints are available from any size area on original, printed to 8 x 10, 11 x 14, 16 x 20, and 35 mm slides are also available. Prices are subject to change; a price list is available on request. On-site use of the collection is by appointment. Please inquire.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, visible imagery, arctic, infrared imagery, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, global, clouds, usa, noaa, satellite meteorology, snow cover, sea ice, spectral, engineering, antarctic, albedo, lightning, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, southern ocean, cloud types, earth science, meteorological satellites, ceos, polar orbiters, usa, nasa, antarctica, visible wavelengths, fires, ocean, dmsp, ols, global change, snow, ols, amd, operational linescan system, geographic region, storms, 
TITLE: Polar Science Center Hydrographic Climatology (PHC). ABSTRACT: The climatology provides temperature and salinity data at 1X1 degree intervals for all the earth's oceans, down to a depth of 5500m, at incremental depths identical to those provided in the National Oceanographic Data Center's (NODC) World Ocean Atlas (WOA). This global climatology is the combination of NODC's 1998 world climatology (WOA), the EWG Arctic Ocean Atlas (AOA), and select Canadian data provided by the Bedford Institute of Oceanography (BIO). While the NODC data includes the Arctic ocean, the AOA data provides a better description of this region. Neither of these data fields provides a good representation of the Canadian Archipelago region and nearby bays in the winter months. The data from the Bedford Institute of Oceanography allowed us to bridge this data hole. These three data sets were merged using an optimal interpolation routine such that our PHC retains the high quality world description provided by the WOA while improving the Arctic with the AOA fields and Canadian data. In summary, PHC = WOA (Levitus) '98 everywhere except in our arctic domain, where we have blended in the AOA field (from EWG), and the BIO data to produce a more realistic arctic region. These Version 3.0 data were received from the Polar Science Center, Applied Physics Lab., University of Washington, during April 2005.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, salinity, models, arctic, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, ncar, ocean, gridding methods, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Seasonal Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: MODIS Ocean Products. ABSTRACT: The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) is the key instrument aboard the Terra (EOS AM) and Aqua (EOS PM) satellites. It is an optical scanner that views the Earth in 36 channels with spatial resolution ranging from 250 meters to 1 kilometer. MODIS-Aqua Level-2 and Level-3 Ocean Color and Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov  Ocean color and SST processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html and at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  SST from MODIS-Terra are available from the Ocean Color Web data archive. For additional information about MODIS ocean data products, see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov PRODUCTS The MODIS-Aqua Level 1A files that are produced, utilized, and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG) are subsetted to remove bands and data that are not utilized for Ocean (SST and Ocean Color) product generation. The Level 1B data set contains calibrated and geolocated at-aperture radiances generated from Level 1A sensor counts and GEO files. Each Level-2 &granule& represents 5 minutes of Terra or Aqua viewing. The ocean color products are only collected in daylight, resulting in 144 granules per day. The sea surface temperature products are collected both day and night, resulting in 288 granules per day. Pixels have 1 km spatial resolution. There are 1354 pixels across the granule, and 2030 rows down the granule. Each Level-2 product is generated from the corresponding Level-1B product. Eleven ocean color parameters and three sea surface temperature parameters are produced. Each pixel also has up to 32 flags and masks that indicate the presence of non-ocean data, algorithm failures and warnings. At Level-3, the products can be generalized into three functional groups: binned 4.6 km, mapped 4.6 km, and mapped 9 km. Level-3 binned products are global products. Spatial bins have 4.63 km spatial resolution in a sinusoidal equal-area grid. Only bins with data values are present; land bins and bins with no data are not stored in the files. All 11 ocean color parameters and three sea surface temperature parameters are available in multiple temporal composites (Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Seasonal, Yearly, Cumulative). Each Level-3 binned Ocean Color granule contains only data that have met data quality standards as indicated by the Level-2 flags and masks. SST products can contain data of varying data quality levels, but each bin will only contain the best quality data available for the time period. The Level-3 standard mapped products are global products as well. Grid points for the entire globe are present in the data granules, including fill values for land and unfilled data points. Spatial resolutions of 4.6 and 9.2 km are available. Five ocean color parameters and three sea surface temperature parameters are available in multiple temporal composites (Daily, Weekly, Monthly, Seasonal, Yearly, Cumulative). Maps are in an equal-angle latitude-longitude grid (cylindrical equidistant map projection). Additional products are under evaluation (currently fluorescence line height and calcite concentration) and are also available as Level 3 mapped products. See the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Documents (ATBD) at http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf and http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The following are the MODIS ocean parameters: Parameters 1-6 are normalized water leaving radiances at 412, 443, 488, 531, 551, and 667 nm. These are radiances received at spacecraft altitudes modified principally by solar irradiance scattering and absorption from the air (molecular (Rayleigh) scattering), from particles suspended in the air (aerosol (Mie) scattering), ozone (selective absorption), sea surface reflections (Sun and sky glitter), and finally, from within the ocean, water molecules and dissolved and suspended particles. Derived water-leaving radiances normalized to a constant sun angle, are essential information for the production of most other MODIS ocean products. The MODIS water-leaving radiance algorithm builds upon both CZCS and SeaWiFS algorithms, taking advantage of improvements in the instrument. For more details please see: http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MSL12  Parameter 7 is the chlorophyll-a concentration. The algorithm used is an empirical 3-band formulation (OC3M) developed by O'Reilly et al, based on the maximum ratio of either 443 nm or 488 nm to 551 nm surface reflectance. The coefficients in the formula are based on analysis of the NASA bio-Optical Marine Algorithm Data set (NOMAD) ( http:  seabass.gsfc.nasa.gov  ). For more details of the empirical chlorophyll algorithm please see: http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi postlaunch_tech_memo.pl?11 Parameter 8 is the ocean water attenuation coefficient, or diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (K490). The summary for parameter 7 is relevant here, as well. Parameters 9-11 are ocean aerosol properties: aerosol optical thickness (AOT) at 869 nm (Tau 869), epsilon 748nm 869nm, and angstrom coefficient 531nm 869nm. AOT is a measure of atmospheric aerosol concentration and the effect that they have on the transmission of light. Epsilon is an index describing the two aerosol models selected by the atmospheric correction algorithm. The angstrom coefficient describes the spectral behavior and size distribution of the aerosol particles in the AOT. Sea-surface temperatures are produced as follows: Day using MODIS channels 31 and 32 (11 micron), Night using MODIS channels 31 and 32, and Night using MODIS channels 22 and 23 (4 micron). SST product determination is based on infrared retrievals of ocean temperature which are corrected for atmospheric absorption. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, biological classification, terra, chlorophyll-a, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, aqua, aerosol optical thickness, fluorescence, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, aquatic ecosystems, sea surface temperature, modis, ocean chemistry, biosphere, ecosystem functions, aerosol radiance, primary production, earth observing system data information system, ocean, flagellates, oceans, amd, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, animals, invertebrates, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, haptophytes, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, plants, aerosol reflectance, plankton, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, coccolithophores, polar, amd, us, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, esip, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes wind speed and wind direction measurements as recorded by a R.M. Young model 05103 wind monitor. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_wind.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_wspd_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_wspd_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, maximum wind speed, lter, arctic, minimum wind speed, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, glacier, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, antarctica, atmospheric winds, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Sea Ice Atlas for the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: DISC 1: Sea Ice Charts and Graphical Data Each of the pages in section Sea Ice Charts and Graphical Data on DISC 1: VISUAL ATLAS, will present you with a grid of choices. Each of the pages below will present you with a set of choices leading to a grid of items. Clicking on the grid cell will show you an image of the corresponding ice chart. From that page, you can use the "Up" button to return to the grid, or use "Next" and "Previous" to cycle through the grid choices. You can use the "Up" button to return to the data grid, or click on "Next" and "Previous" to see different ice charts. DISC 2: Sea Ice Data Sets The data sets on DISC 2 can be viewed by clicking on "Sea Ice Data Sets.htm" in the DATA SETS directory. Because they are mostly binary, ZIP compressed, files they cannot be viewed with your browser. The data files on DISC 2 portion of this atlas can be copied from the CD archive to your local disk and uncompressed with the WINZIP softwarec for the PC or STUFFIT EXPANDER software for the MAC. The binary sea ice concentration grids together with the header file and text file of ice can be copied from the CD and loaded directly into a GIS analysis system or other spatial analysis software package.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ocean, amd, cn, sea ice, amd, geographic region, sea ice motion, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Snow patch in Adventdalen (1). ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 10m deep borehole was drilled in Adventdalen, next to the old, dry river channel from Todalen. The channel collects snow in winter while the surface at the borehole site is kept more or less snowfree by wind action. An automatic camera is used to monitor the snow cover. Stratigraphy: 0-2m: Till. Possibly silt and clay layers from 1.5m. Some ice 1-1.5m. Ice-rich 1.5-2m. 2-3.3m: Ice-rich (~50%) and silt clay layers. A few thin coarser layers 3.3-4m: Coarser and less ice. 4-6m: Some ice (less with depth). Silt clay layers in coarser (gravel) material. 6-10m: silt sand (clay). Increasing plasicity with depth.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, adventdalen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Snow and Vegetation Measurements from Selected Sites Near Council, Alaska, USA, 2000-2002. ABSTRACT: A combination of snow depth, snow temperature, snow water equivalent (SWE), and albedo measurements were taken from the spring of 2000 to the fall of 2002 at five sites near Council, Alaska. The sites vary in land cover type from forest to tundra. The purpose of the investigation was to understand the potential effects of climate change on the region by measuring how conditions change along a vegetation gradient. These data, which characterize snow cover and snow-holding capacity of various vegetation types, can help scientists understand how key meteorological events impact the arctic landscape. Data files, available via FTP, are in Excel format and include plots of the data and supplementary data information.. KEYWORD: swe, atlas, evergreen vegetation, vegetation species, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, snow corer, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, ground-based observations, vegetation cover, office of polar programs, national science foundation, gps, temperature probes, biosphere, opp9732077, deciduous vegetation, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, tape measure, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, snow depth, continent, snow melt, albedometer, vegetation, canopy characteristics, vegetation gradient, automated snow depth probe, steel measuring tape, usa, nsf, united states of america, probes, snow, ice, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, snow, ice temperature, hand probes, graduated pointed probe rod, global positioning system, arcss119, thermistor probe, dominant species, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Tropopause Data from the WDC Meteorology-Obninsk Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI). ABSTRACT: The TP data set is archived at the World Data Center-B Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information (RIHMI), Kaluga, Russia. The parameters include upper-air temperature, pressure, relative humidity, and winds for Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia since 1983.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, troposphere, tropopause type, idn_node gsfc, wdc-b, rihmi, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, humidity, ground stations, europe, polar, vertical location, relative humidity, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, tropopause height, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, water vapor, upper air, geographic region, tp, eurasia, 
TITLE: Polar Waveform Data Reference Set from Seasat Altimeter Sensor Data Record. ABSTRACT: The PDRS (Polar Data Reference Set) is a subset of the Seasat Altimeter sensor data record (SDR) archive maintained at the ADF (Algorithm Development Facility), part of the EODC (Earth Observation Data Centre). The aim was to provide a manageable set of polar waveforms for R&D analysis. The PDRS covers a 17-day repeat period from 24th July 1978 to 11th August 1978. Seasat was launched on 28th June 1978 carrying a five-sensor payload. The objective of the Altimeter (ALT) was to determine ocean topography with a height measurement precision of 10 cm. The ALT carrier frequency was 13.5 GHz and operated in chirp pulse mode with a 3.2 micro-second uncompressed pulse width and 3.125 ns compressed pulse width. The pulse limited footprint diameter was 1.2 km for calm seas; beam-limited footprint diameter was 22.2 km. The PDRS is sub-divided into four data types: i) Antarctic ice sheet data, ii) Antarctic sea ice data, iii) Greenland ice sheet data, and iv) Arctic sea ice data. The source of the PDRS data set was 36 tapes comprising the SDR waveform data for a 17-day repeat period. The data points of interest fall in two distinct geographic regions: south of -50 and north of 59 latitudes. In the southern region, all data with the TOIL flag set to land were extracted as Antarctic ice sheet data. In the northern region, all data with the TOIL flag set to land within Greenland (longitudes -58 W and -20 W) were extracted as Greenland ice sheet data The remaining sets of sea ice data were extracted using an algorithm based on the peakiness of the waveform which was developed by the Remote Sensing Group at Mullard Space Science Laboratories, UK. The tapes are written in 9-track, 6250-bpi format. The block format is that described in the Seast Telemetry dictionary, containing 23 waveforms packed into 2988 2-byte words. Each tape is divided into logical files separated by a file mark, one per source tape. Full tape copies will be made of this data set on request. Tape handling costs will be charged.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, altimeters, arctic, seasat 1, greenland, idn_node esrin, eodc, esa, esrin, north america, spectral, engineering, sensor counts, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, southern ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, radar, ice sheets, ocean, amd, ocean dynamics satellite, geographic region, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton investigation collocted with IKMT by 11th CHINARE in 1994-1995. ABSTRACT: 7 of IKMT planktonic samples were collected from Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Canadian Regional Ice Charts. ABSTRACT: These charts show the estimated ice conditions for various regions across Canada. They are based on an analysis and integration of all available data on ice conditions, including weather and oceanographic information, visual observations from shore, ship and aircraft, airborne radar, satellite imagery and climatological information. The charts describe areas of differing ice conditions using the international standard ice code, and indicate where significant changes in the amount, stage of development and form of the predominant ice types have occurred. Charts are issued on a weekly basis during the summer season. During winter months (January - May), the charts are issued on a monthly basis. They cover the east coast, Great Lakes, Hudson Bay, Eastern and Western Arctic.The Canadian Ice Service promotes safe and efficient maritime operations and protects Canada's environment by providing reliable and timely information about ice conditions in Canadian waters. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster, vector. Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Albers Conical Equal Area Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, alaskan coast, sea surface, northern hemisphere, ice types, north america, ontario, sea ice, spectral, engineering, bering strait, ice growth, melt, north pacific ocean, nova scotia, radar imagery, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, new brunswick, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, victoria strait, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, saskatchewan, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, bering sea, queen elizabeth islands, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, quebec, alberta, king william island, radar, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Near Real-Time DMSP SSM I Pathfinder Daily EASE-Grid Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: This data set provides daily, near-real time Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) brightness temperatures in the Equal-Area Scalable Earth-Grid (EASE-Grid). The data set consists of gridded data in two projections: Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere. The data lags by one day and provides 270 days of near real-time data. The spatial resolution is 25 km for all channels. Data are contained in flat, binary files and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: ease, arctic, ease-grid, special sensor microwave, imager, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, usa, noaa, noaa pathfinder, noaa, nasa pathfinder, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, spectral, engineering, microwave, antarctic, gridded data, pathfinder, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, ssm, i, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, nasa pathfinder, southern hemisphere, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: Quaternary Mammals of Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet listing radiocarbon dates on Quaternary mammals from northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland. Both directly dated taxa and taxa dated by association, such as a date on charcoal at an archaeological site, are included. The taxa and associations are classified according to environment (including grassland, tundra, marine arctic, etc). As of June 2001, the spreadsheet contains 4350 records.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, quaternary mammals, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Air Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes air temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. The complete data set, daily averages, and monthly averages are available at the following URLs: - Complete data set: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_airt.dat" - Daily averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_airt_daily_avg.dat" - Monthly averages: "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology caam_airt_monthly_avg.dat". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, air temperature, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, glacier, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, temperature probes, antarctica, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Gas Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry Data for Crude Oils, Condensates and Rock Extracts From Canadian and Selected International Sedimentary Basins. ABSTRACT: This data set includes mass fragmentograms and mass spectra obtained from gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analyses of mainly saturated and aromatic hydrocarbons fractions of crude oils, condensates and rock organic extracts. Distributions of selected classes of compounds are widely used to recognize petroleum genetic relationships (oil-oil, oil-source correlations) and various forms of petroleum alteration (mainly thermal and or biological). The data have been collected using various gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (GC-MS) equipment operating in several experimental modes (mainly selected ion monitoring [SIM], full scan [FS] and multiple reaction monitoring [MRM]). These data have been utilized in petroleum system analysis applied to exploration, petroleum engineering optimization and environmental impacts mitigation in most Canadian and some international sedimentary basins. These data are used in the determination of the geochemical composition of crude oils and rock extracts, biomarker distribution, oil-oil correlation, oil-source correlation, oil alteration, biodegradation, thermal maturation, petroleum system analysis, petroleum source potential, petroleum exploration, energy assessment, environmental geology and petroleum production engineering. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, petroleum system, franklinian geosyncline, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, williston basin, mackenzie corridor, north america, ontario, condensates, petroleum, gc-ms traces, north pacific ocean, queen charlotte basin, geochemistry, biomarkers, bitumen, oil analysis, nova scotia, appalachian basin, grand banks, petroleum geochemistry, mass fragmentograms, saturated hydrocarbons, steranes, organic extracts, canada, cgdi, organic geochemistry, terpanes, canada, ocean, new brunswick, michigan basin, scotian shelf, geographic region, sverdrup basin, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, natural resources, north atlantic ocean, western canada sedimentary basin (wcsb), aromatic hydrocarbons, nunavut, northwest territories, gas chromatography - mass spectrometry, united states of america, beaufort-mackenzie, rock extracts, saskatchewan, gc-ms analysis, jeanne d'arc basin, yukon territory, polar, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, quebec, biogeochemistry, alberta, crude oils, solvent extracts, bowser basin, atlantic ocean, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: SSM I Derived Global Ocean Surface Wind Components V10 (Atlas et al.); Product #079. ABSTRACT: This product is one of several products containing SSM I derived winds over the oceans produced by Robert Atlas and Joseph Ardizzone (NASA Goddard Space Flight Center) in collaboration with Ross N. Hoffman (Atmospheric and Environmental Research - AER). A 2D variational analysis method (VAM) was used to combine information from ECMWF 10m surface wind analyses, SSM I wind speeds (from Frank Wentz, Remote Sensing Systems), and ship and buoy winds to produce new surface wind analyses between -78 and 78 degrees latitude. Data sets designated as level 3.0 contain gridded surface winds produced by the VAM. Level 2.5 data sets contain SSM I wind speeds with wind directions assigned from the VAM analysis. Finally, the level 2.5 data is binned to grid points over 5 and 30 day periods. This is designated as the level 3.5 product. SSM I wind speeds have been assimilated every 6 hours for the period July 1987 to December 1999. Please note that all products were arrived at using Wentz version-2 SSM I. Extensions will be made as SSM I data becomes available. All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Gridded data (level 3.0 and 3.5) is represented on a 2 degree latitude by 2.5 degree longitude grid and is configured as follows: rdata(i,j) i = 1,2,...,144 ==> lon = -180.0,-177.5,...,177.5 j = 1,2,...,91 ==> lat = -90.0,-88.0,...,90.0 Data is available via anonymous FTP to "ftp:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov" (137.78.96.30) or on tape in HDF (Hierarchical Data Format). Documentation and software are available on line. The data sets are segmented by month. Level 3.0 data occupies ~6.3MB per month. Level 2.5 constitutes the largest volume at ~25MB per month. Level 3.5 binned data is ~.1MB in size.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, defense meteorological satellite program-f10, arctic ocean, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f10, open-source project for a network data access protocol, eosdis, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, earth science information partners program, global ocean, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, ocean, dods, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) Oceanographic Mooring Data, 2001-2002. ABSTRACT: This data set, acquired with an oceanographic bottom-anchored mooring, includes sea-ice draft and depth data, conductivity, temperature, pressure, salinity, and ocean current measurements such as speed and direction. Each mooring contains vertically distributed instruments, which measure ocean properties at fixed depths and record data internally. These data are retrieved annually when the mooring is recovered. Located on the Pole Abyssal Plain about 50 kilometers from the North Pole, the 2001 mooring was chosen because it provided a suitable landing site for the supporting aircraft. Ocean depth was approximately 4300 m. Data were recorded half-hourly to hourly from 1 April 2001 through 27 April 2002. The North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) is a year-round, automated scientific observatory, deploying various instruments each April in order to learn how the world's northernmost sea helps regulate global climate. It consists of a set of unmanned scientific platforms that record oceanographic, cryospheric, and atmospheric data throughout the year. More information about the project is available at the NPEO project Web site, http:  psc.apl.washington.edu northpole . Data are in ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, current meters, arctic ocean, conductivity meters, pressure sensors, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean water temperature measurements, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, conductivity, sea ice, opp-9910305, sea ice motion, opp-0352754, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, ground-based observations, upward looking sonar, office of polar programs, national science foundation, pressure, sea ice draft, north pole, transponders, ocean, north pole environmental observatory, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, moorings, sea level pressure, ocean water conductivity measurements, usa, nsf, radio transponders, ocean water salinity measurements, npeo, polar, salinity, current meter, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, ocean water salinity, nsidc national snow and ice data center, arcss156, arcss, npeo, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Inside Passage, British Columbia, Ferry Transects. ABSTRACT: This data set contains survey data from the Inside Passage in British Columbia, Canada. It covers waterbird, seabird and some sea mammal data, collected with DISTANCE Sampling surveys from one side of the ferry for July 1999.. KEYWORD: seabird ecology, brandt?s cormorant, biological classification, rhinoceros auklet, haematopus bachmani, arctic, british columbia, fratercula corniculata, phalacrocorax penicillatus, bella bella, larus glaucescens, north america, cassin's auklet, marbled murrelet, pigeon guillemot, black oystercatcher, phalacrocorax pelagicus, common murre, tufted puffin, animals, vertebrates, ancient murrelet, thick-billed murre, canada, cerorhinca monocerata, harbour porpoise, glaucous-winged gull, geographic region, synthliboramphus antiquus, usa, usgs, continent, cepphus columba, brachyramphus marmoratus, ptychoramphus aleuticus, sea mammal surveys, pelagic cormorant, horned puffin, birds, index of relative abundance, polar, seabird monitoring, phocoena phocoena, port hardy, double-crested cormorant, earth science, ceos, seabird surveys, uria lomvia, western canada, prince rupert, uria aalge, phalacrocorax auritus, 
TITLE: Alaska Geodetic Control Files; USGS. ABSTRACT: Positional (horizontal) central data and elevational (vertical) control data for the state of Alaska. Data may include description of control points and 'to-reach' information. It is issued in 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads, states, and the 1:250,000 topographic series. These maps are not yet available in digital form.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, terrain elevation, control surveys, topography, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, geodetics, gravity, maps, charts, cartography, landforms, navigation, united states of america, north america, alaska, geographic region, usgs, geodesy, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Daily L3 6.25 km 89 GHz Brightness Temperature Polar Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. This Level-3 gridded product (AE_SI6) includes brightness temperatures at 89.0 GHz. Data are mapped to a polar stereographic grid at 6.25 km spatial resolution. This product is an intermediate product during processing of AMSR-E Level-3 sea ice products at 12.5 km and 25 km resolution. All variables include daily average, daily ascending and descending horizontally and vertically polarized brightness temperatures. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format and are available from 19 June 2002 to present via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, ae_si6, eos pm-1, arctic, eos, passive microwave radiation, echo, usa, noaa, eosdis, brightness temperatures, aqua, earth science information partners program, imagery, spectral, engineering, microwave, amsr-e, radiance, polar, earth science, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, tb, daac, nasa, brightness temperature, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, microwave imagery, amd, esip, geographic region, 
TITLE: Beechey Point, Alaska Vegetation and Land Cover, USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Vegetation and land cover for Beechey Point 1:250,000-scale topographic quadrangle. Derived from a single Landsat MSS scene. Printed map: AK Vegetation and Land Cover Series l-0211. Digital raster data set also available. Seven categories. Data stored as 50 meter UTM-referenced pixels. Information available as map or digital data set. Map unit coverage within each township printed on back of map. Map printed using Scitex laser printer. Documentation - Walker, D.A. and W. Acevedo, 1987, Vegetation and a Landsat-derived Land Cover Map of the Beechey Point Quadrangle, Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska, U.S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, CRREL Report 87-5, 63 p.. KEYWORD: solid earth, biological classification, terrain elevation, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, mss, field geology, north america, alaska, prudhoe bay, north slope, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, petroleum, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, coast, mammals, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, natural resources, landcover, vegetation, birds, geology, wetlands, oil, united states of america, land, coastal habitat, wildlife, elevation, earth science, ceos, land surface, contours, environment, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, endangered species, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: CODAR Satellite Overlays: Long Range. ABSTRACT: Rutgers University Marine Remote Sensing Mid Atlantic Bight - Currents & Temperatures are available online through CODAR (Coastal Ocean RADAR) Overlays on SST Satellite images. The satellite images that correspond with the CODAR (Coastal Ocean Radar) data, is described in detail in the following online documentation: "http:  marine.rutgers.edu mrs education class josh hf_radar.html". The images combine the satellite temperature images with surface currents from CODAR ocean Radar. The arrows indicate the speed and direction of the surface currents. Images will only be updated when there is a clear satellite image to overlay the CODAR vectors on. The naming convention remains the same (eg. image 010402.0725.n14.gif is from 01=2001, 04=April, 02=2nd day, 0725=7:25 GMT, n14=satellite #. GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) is 4 hours ahead of EDT from Apr-Oct, and 5 hours ahead from Nov-Mar. The number to the right of the image indicates the size in kbytes. The bigger the size, the more data there is. For those visiting the Jersey shore, go to "http:  www.thecoolroom.org" Where you will learn about the underwater weather along the Jersey coast.. KEYWORD: continent, sst, north america, earth science, new jersey, oceans, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE) CV580 Aircraft G-Meter Data (FIRE_ACE_UWCV580_GMETER). ABSTRACT: This data set consists of light scattering measurements provided by the 4-channel nephelometer g-meter instrument flown onboard the University of Washington's CV580 aircraft during the FIRE ACE field campaign.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, scattered light, arctic, cloud emissivity, clouds, eosdis, cv-580, precipitation, extinction, earth science information partners program, hydrometeors, first isccp regional experiment, convair cv-580, fire, polar, cloud reflectance, earth science, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, earth observing system data information system, ocean, g-meter, esip, geographic region, nephelometers, fire, ace, 
TITLE: The ocean current data of Davis Station during Feb. 6, 1991-Mar. 2,1991. ABSTRACT: In the 7th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China, we acquired ocean current data of Davis Station during a month.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, continent, davis station, polar, southern ocean, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 16th CHINARE_1 in 1999-2000. ABSTRACT: 15 52GG layer planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: CO2, Hydrographic, and Chemical Data Obtained During the R V Meteor Cruise 18 1 in the North Atlantic Ocean, CDIAC NDP056. ABSTRACT: [Summary adopted from the NDP-056 documentation] The North Atlantic Ocean is characterized by an intense meridional circulation cell carrying near-surface waters of tropical and subtropical origin northward and deep waters of arctic and subarctic origin southward. The related "overturning" is driven by the sinking of water masses at high latitudes. The overturning rate and thus the intensity of the meridional transports of mass, heat, and salt, is an important control parameter for the modeling of the ocean's role in climate. Certainly such estimates require more than one survey of the study area; therefore, the Research Vessel (R V) Meteor Cruise 18 1 was one in a series of cruises in the North Atlantic that started in March 1991 and continued until 1995. This data documentation discusses the procedures and methods used to measure total carbon dioxide (TCO2) and total alkalinity (TALK) at hydrographic stations, as well as underway partial pressure of CO2 (pCO2) measured during the R V Meteor Cruise 18 1 in the North Atlantic Ocean (Section A1E). Conducted as part of the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE) and the German North Atlantic Overturning Rate Determination expedition, the cruise began in Reykjavik, Iceland, on September 2, 1991, and ended after 24 days at sea in Hamburg, Germany, on September 25. 1991. WOCE Zonal Section A1E began at 60 N and 30(deg)30' W (southeast of Greenland) and continued southeast with a closely spaced series of hydrocasts to 52(deg)20' N and 14(deg)15' W (Porcupine Shelves). Measurements made along WOCE Section A1E included pressure, temperature, salinity, and oxygen measured by a conductivity, temperature and depth (CTD) sensor; bottle salinity; oxygen; phosphate; nitrate; nitrite; silicate; TCO2; TALK; and underway pCO2. A total of 61 CTD casts were made, including 59 bottle casts and 2 calibration stations. Replicate samples from seven Niskin bottles at five stations were also collected for later shoree-based reference analyses of TCO2 by vacuum extraction and manometry and TALK in the laboratory of Dr. Charles D. Keeling, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; these results are also included in this report. TCO2 was measured by using an automated sample processsor, to extract CO2 from seawater samples, coupled to a coulometer, to detect the extracted gas. The precision and accuracy of the system was 11.60 umol kg. Samples collected for TALK were measured using standard potentiometric techniques; precision was 12.0 umol.kg. Underway pCO2 was measured by infrared photometry; precision was 12 uatm. The R V Meteor Cruise 18 1 data set is available freee of charge as a numeric data package (NDP) from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center. The NDP consists of three oceanographic data files, three FORTRAN 77 data retrieval routine files, an readme file, and this printed documentation, which describes the contents and format of all files as well as the procedures and methods used to obtain the data. For more information, see: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov oceans ndp_056 ndp056.html" See also the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Global Survey of CO2 in the Oceans: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov oceans home.html". KEYWORD: ocean currents, arctic ocean, arctic, bathythermographs, water pressure, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, biogeochemical cycles, woce, photometers, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, total co2, salt transport, carbon, talk, oxygen, stable isotopes, hydrographic measurements, gtos, ocean chemistry, radionuclides, alkalinity, ndp-056, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, nitrite, water depth, ocean, profilers, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, gosic, geographic region, g3os, niskin bottles, expendable bathythermographs, north atlantic ocean, world ocean circulation experiment, nitrate, xbt, nutrients, trace elements, thermohaline circulation, r, v meteor 18, 1, polar, carbon dioxide, salinity, tems, pco2, density, tco2, total alkalinity, earth science, phosphate, cdiac, carbon cycle, usa, nasa, silicate, nutrient measurements, circulation, atlantic ocean, partial co2, adcp, ocean circulation, coulometers, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: 47-Year Time Series of Gridded Monthly Temperature, Precipitation, and Water Budget Variables. ABSTRACT: The University of Delaware Center for Climatic Research offers a 47-year time series of gridded monthly temperature, precipitation, and water budget variables data set. The data is split up by Location into three categories: Global Climate Data, South American Climate Data, and Arctic Climate Data. The Global Climate Data is composed of climatologies and time series (1950-1996) of Monthly Air Temperature, Total Precipitation, Terrestrial Water Budgets, and Moisture Indices. The South American and Arctic Climate Data are comprised of climatologies and time series (1960-1990) of Monthly Air Temperature and Total Precipitation. Each set of data may be viewed as an animated MPEG or JAVA Applet file. The data used to create the animations can be downloaded as compressed UNIX TAR files from the project home page. Link to the the data set home page for full data documentation and to obtain the data. "http:  climate.geog.udel.edu ~climate ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, snow melt, arctic, monthly total precipitation, global, air temperature, evapotranspiration, open-source project for a network data access protocol, seasonal to inter-annual earth science information partners, precipitation, earth science information partners program, snow cover, south america, thermometers, soils, snow, ice, siesip, polar, tems, gtos, surplus, fixed observation stations, earth science, cryosphere, aneroid barometer, land surface, lba, usa, nasa, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, rain gauges, dods, esip, gosic, geographic region, opendap, g3os, distributed oceanographic data system, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: R-ArcticNET: A Regional, Electronic Hydrometeorological Data Network for the pan-Arctic Region, from University New Hampshire. ABSTRACT: R-ArcticNET is a WWW-based, regional hydrometeorological data bank to support pan-Arctic hydological sciences and water resource assessment in the Arctic regions. Currently data consists of a specialized subset of the UNESCO River Discharge Data Base (RivDIS). The area contained in the data set is the entire land area draining into the Arctic Ocean as well as Hudson Bay, James Bay, and the Northern Bering Strait. Future data holdings will include the UNH Simulated River Networks, the Legates and Willmott Temperature and Precipitation data, and the Comprehensive Russian River Discharge Database. The data can be obtained from the electronic geographic map at: "http:  www.R-arcticnet.sr.unh.edu AllData index.html". KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, hydrometeorological data, yukon basin, arctic, hydological data, mackenzie basin, yenisei basin, water resources, scandinavia, northern hemisphere, united states of america, russia, north america, sweden, alaska, unesco, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, europe, barents sea, ob basin, finland, polar, lena basin, river discharge, earth science, stream gauges, usa, nasa, northern europe, beaufort sea, surface water, nelson basin, discharge, flow, laptev sea, eastern europe, anadyr and kolyma basins, hudson bay, ocean, canada, rivers, streams, norway, southern and eastern hudson bay and james bay, geographic region, eurasia, canadian arctic archipelago, 
TITLE: Central Asia Temperature and Precipitation Data, 1879-2003. ABSTRACT: This data set updates and expands the NOAA Global Historical Climate Network (GHCN) of quality controlled meteorological records, focusing on the Northern Tien Shan and Pamir Mountain Ranges of Central Asia. It is compiled primarily from meteorological measurements conducted by the National Hydrometeorological Services (NHMS) of the Central Asian countries. Precipitation data are monthly sums bias corrected for gauge type and for wetting, but not for wind. The correction factors, K1 for gauge type, K2 for wind, and K3 for wetting, are included as separate files. Temperature data are monthly means, for example, the mean of daily temperatures for that month, where daily temperature is defined as the average of all observations for each calendar day. For many stations, average maximum and average minimum temperature are supplied as well. These are derived from daily maximum and minimum temperatures. The station metadata for this data set are station histories, populat ion, vegetation, and topography. Data were subjected to rigorous quality control and homogenieity assessment procedures, consistent with those used for the GHCN. There are records from 298 stations. The period of record covered by each station is variable, and in the period from 1985 to 1995, there was a sharp reduction in the number of operating stations. The earliest record is from 1879. Records are updated through 2003 where data are available. Most stations have almost 100 years of observations. Records are from stations in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The data are stored as tab-delimited ASCII text format, Microsoft Excel, and PDF, and are availabe via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, kyrgyzstan, air temperature, usa, noaa, precipitation, usa, nsf, noaa, thermometers, kazakhstan, uzbekistan, ground-based observations, polar, turkmenistan, asia, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, tajikistan, southcentral asia, rain gauges, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Upper Colorado River Flow Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of reconstructed annual flows of the Colorado River at Lee Ferry based on new tree-ring records of ring-width from remnant preserved wood. ABSTRACT: New tree-ring records of ring-width from remnant preserved wood are analyzed to extend the record of reconstructed annual flows of the Colorado River at Lee Ferry into the Medieval Climate Anomaly, when epic droughts are hypothesized from other paleoclimatic evidence to have affected various parts of western North America. The most extreme low-frequency feature of the new reconstruction, covering A.D. 762-2005, is a hydrologic drought in the mid-1100s. The drought is characterized by a decrease of more than 15% in mean annual flow averaged over 25 years, and by the absence of high annual flows over a longer period of about six decades. The drought is consistent in timing with dry conditions inferred from tree-ring data in the Great Basin and Colorado Plateau, but regional differences in intensity emphasize the importance of basin-specific paleoclimatic data in quantifying likely effects of drought on water supply.. KEYWORD: continent, past global changes, igbp, arizona, arctic, usa, noaa, medieval climate anomaly, paleoclimate, tree-ring records, pages, united states of america, north america, idaho, drought, precipitation reconstruction, land records, streamflow reconstruction, polar, paleoclimate reconstructions, earth science, ceos, colorado, wyoming, lee ferry, drought, flow reconstruction, upper colorado river, geographic region, new mexico, tree rings, 
TITLE: Organic Iron Speciation in the Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Objectives The distribution and biological availability of Fe is strongly controlled by its physical-chemical speciation within seawater, where colloids and Fe-organic complexes are dominant factors. In order to study the distribution and the biological availability of Fe, the natural Fe organic complexes over the whole water depth were determined in three different size fractions. Special attention was given in that distinct water masses present were sampled as well. Samples were collected by an ultra-clean sampling system using 24 Go Flo bottles fixed on an all-titanium frame and with a Kevlar cable. The concentration of iron binding ligands (organic compounds which strongly bind Fe) and their binding strength (conditional stability constant) are studied in 3 size classes here: unfiltered water, 0.2 &#956;m filtered water and smaller than 1000 KDa ultra-filtrated water. Methods General Under ultra clean conditions the 0.2 m filtered seawater was ultra-filtrated using polyethylene hollow-fiber filters as to make an operational defined distinction between large colloidal and small colloidal Fe including the "truly dissolved" Fe (1000 KDa nominal weight, Stereapore, Mitsubishi-rayon Co. Ltd, Nishioka and al., 2000, 2005). The dissolved organic iron (0.2 m filtered) as well as the truly dissolved iron (< 1000 KDa) were analysed by Maarten Klunder and Patrick Laan using a chemo luminescence method (FIA) with acidified samples (pH 1.8). Total iron will be measured 6-12 months after the acidification of the unfiltered sample. The natural ligand characteristics were determined by doing a complexing ligand titration with addition of iron (between 0 and 8 nM of Fe added) in buffered seawater (mixed NH3 NH4OH borate buffer, 5 mM). The competing ligand 'TAC' (2-(2-Thiazolylazo)-p-cresol) with a final concentration of 10 M was used and the complex (TAC)2-Fe was measured after equilibration (> 15 h) by cathodic stripping voltammetry (CSV) (Croot and Johansson, 2000). The electrical signal recorded with this method (nA) was converted as a concentration (nM), then the ligand concentration and the binding strength were estimated using the non-linear regression of the Langmuir isotherm (Gerringa and al., 1995). The voltammetric equipment consisted of a Autolab potentiostat (Type I, II and III, Ecochemie, The Netherlands), a mercury drop electrode (model VA 663 from Metrohm). All equipment was protected against electrical noise by a current filter (Fortress 750, Best Power). Total and dissolved iron was measured directly on board by Flow Injection Analysis (FIA) after de Jong et al. 1998 in a cleanroom container. Reference M. Klunder (separate data set, see Dissolved_Fe_Arctic_Klunder_IPY35_NL) Sampling statistics 4 deep stations have been sampled in order to characterize and show any difference between 3 basins in the Arctic Ocean: Nansen basins (2950 m and 3935 m), Amundsen basin (4500 m) and Makarov basin (3900 m). 3 shallow stations have also been sampled to show the influence of the river inputs on these basins: Barent Sea (175 m), Kara Sea (310 m) and Laptev Sea (56 m).. KEYWORD: size fractionation, arctic ocean, organic ligands, organic fe, 1000 kda, geotraces, arctic, static mercury drop electrode, unfiltered, trace elements, arctic, nl, international polar year, cle-acsv, polar, ocean chemistry, earth science, voltammeter, conditional stability constants, r, v polarstern, stripping voltammetry, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: A Global Representative System of Marine Protected Areas. ABSTRACT: Four volumes identifying priorities for establishing new marine protected areas and improving management of existing ones in each of the world's 18 major marine regions: Antarctica, Arctic, Mediterranean, Northwest Atlantic, Baltic, Caribbean, West Africa and South Atlantic, Central Indian Ocean, Arabian Seas, East Africa, and East Asian Seas, South Pacific, Northeast Pacific, Northwest Pacific, Southeast Pacific and Australia New Zealand. Purpose: Recommends priority areas and actions for creation of globally representative system of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). The purpose of the system is to recommend priority areas and actions for creation of globally representative system of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). The primary goal of the NRSMPA is to establish and manage a comprehensive, adequate and representative system of marine protected areas to contribute to the long-term ecological viability of marine and estuarine systems, to maintain ecological processes and systems, and to protect Australia's biological diversity at all levels.. KEYWORD: chordates, mine drainage, arctic, central indian ocean, east africa, birds, new zealand, ecology, caribbean, arabian seas, marine protected area, northeast pacific, northwest pacific, global ocean, south atlantic, human dimensions, animals, marine protected areas, east asian seas, biodiversity, west africa, southeast pacific, baltic, earth science, environmental impacts, australia, marine environment monitoring, northwest atlantic, vertebrates, mediterranean, south pacific, conservation, mammals, protected areas, oceans, geographic region, australia, csiro, 
TITLE: IPY-132-CANADA #186-POLAR BIOREM-BIORESTORATION OF CONTAMINATED SOILS AND SEDIMENTS NEAR SCIENTIFIC STATIONS IN POLAR REGIONS. ABSTRACT: PROJECT CANADA #186 FOR IPY: WITH THE COLLABORATION OF FRANCE AND ARGENTINE SCIENTIST Arctic: June 2007 to August 2008 Antarctic: December 2006 to April 2008 Scientific and military stations in polar and sub-polar regions have been and are still dependent on fossil fuels for their unique source of energy. The result has been the accidental contamination of soils surrounding stations mainly by diesel fuel and sometimes the nearby marine ecosystem by small or large oil spills from shipping activities. Furthermore, many stations had burned and often are still burning wastes on the site spreading polyaromatic hydrocarbons and soot in the vicinity of stations. Cleanup and restoration of hydrocarbons contaminated soils are difficult tasks in polar regions due to extreme fragility of soil and nearshore ecosystems, low temperature and limited access to heavy cleanup equipment. The approach now adopted by most countries already active in restoring contaminated sites is to develop "in-situ bioremediation methods" which consist in encouraging natural microbial communities to degrade oil residues and PAHs by adding nutrients or selecting highly performing bacteria collected from these sites. Scientific progress has been important in the last decade, but not enough fast to face the emergency case we are now facing with the fast warm-up of both polar regions. In many cases, water soluble oil and PAHs components (the most toxic ones) have slowly migrated to permafrost level and persisted there. As permafrost layer will go down and eventually disappear in some regions, there is an urgent need to speed up research and development of efficient methods for biorestoration of hydrocarbons contaminated soils and sediments in polar stations and transfer these techniques to countries without expertise and financial support in bioremediation technology. Taking the opportunity of the IPY 2007 and the increasing awareness of world population about the importance of preserving and restoring fragile polar environments, we propose to develop a world R&D network on the best technologies to be use in a very near future to biorestore and protect soil and nearby marine ecosystems from fossil fuels and PAHs from on-site burning. Such a network is already partly in place as our team at ISMER (Universit du Qubec  Rimouski) is working with France (Institut Paul-mile Victor, IPEV) for over 10 years and with Argentina Antarctic Institute for 4 years. The project will consist in conducting one-year comparative bioremediation experiments in various sites using emerging techniques from participating countries and determining key factors which control the success or the failure of proposed techniques. The final step will be to transfer successful technologies to demanding countries. This project is a world wide extension of ongoing programs on bioremediation and biorestotarion of oiled soils and sediments conducted by France and Argentina in co-operation with a Canadian team. One Canadian PhD student is presently at Juvany station with MacCormack team. Principal Canadian investigator will be at Kerguelen and Crozet Islands in January 2006.In all cases, the Canadian team is responsible for chemical and toxicological analysis. The project includes the settlement of a permanent Canada Argentina laboratory at Esperanza station where two large houses (formally used by officers) are already available for scientific activities around the year. If Argentina provides hosing, electricity, sampling boats and transportation to Ushuaia, the contribution from Canada is expected to provide scientific instruments and sampling means to be permanently present on the station. Prof Emilien Pelletier - Institut des Sciences de la Mer de Rimouski (ISMER) Daniel Delille - CNRS IPEV, France Walter MacCormack - Instituto Antartico Argentino, Argentina Antonio Curtosi - Instituto Antartico Argentino, Argentina Georges Feller - Universit de Lige, Belgium Gijs Breedveld - Geotechnical Institute, Norway All countries involved in the network will have to provide the environmental status of their own past and present polar stations in order to establish where bioremediation experiments will be conducted. The extent and intensity of the contamination will be determining factors to decide were experiments will be conducted. The project will have to locate permafrost level (if any) and estimate any change occurring in present years compared to previous decades. Experiments will be conducted in both Arctic and Antarctic stations in order to compare capacity of local bacterial communities to degrade fossil hydrocarbons under comparable weather conditions. The project will involve "bioaugmentation experiments" using selected bacterial consortia from contaminated sites and their re-introduction at the same site with optimum conditions.. KEYWORD: land management, heavy metals, arctic, field surveys, coastal stations, oil spill, snow cover, human dimensions, groundwater chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, ocean chemistry, hydrocarbons, land use, land cover, reclamation, revegetation, restoration, antarctica, ocean contaminants, ipy, permafrost, water quality, laboratory, frozen ground, kerguelen island, oceans, amd, geographic region, contaminants, continent, toxic chemicals, ground water, svalbar islands, international polar year, water quality, water chemistry, soils, amd, ar, snow, ice, ocean waves, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, dumont durville station, esperanza base, field investigation, crozet station, sediment chemistry, landscape, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Expendable Bathythermographs (XBT) data from the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China. ABSTRACT: In the 8th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China, we acquired data through XBT on the way to Zhongshan Station.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, southern ocean, expendable bathythermographs, arctic, earth science, ceos, water temperature, ocean temperature, xbt, antarctica, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ships, water depth, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: Monochromatic all-sky CCD image data. ABSTRACT: This is a Sino-Japan collaborative observation at Zhongshan, Antarctica, which commenced March 1998 (Principal Investigators: Prof. Natsuo Sato, National Institute of Polar Research and Dr. Huigen Yang, Polar Research Institute of China). The observation system comprises a CCD camera fitted with a fish-eye lens and an interference filter, which can be manually changed between the two target auroral lines on 557.7nm and 630.0nm. The HAMAMATSU Photonics's C4880-37 CCD camera provides images with a spatial resolution of 512*512*12 bits. The exposure time is set to 15 seconds in observation and image data are originally recorded on DVD RAM disks.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, visible imagery, arctic, aurora, all-sky camera, geomagnetic indices, cameras, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, magnetic anomalies, polar, images, ccd imager, earth science, ceos, monochromatic, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, geomagnetism, amd, all-sky, geographic region, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for the Western Part of the Katun Mountain Range, Russia. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for West part Katun range derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Arctic areas under Environmental protection. ABSTRACT: Arctic areas under Environmental protection Protected areas in the Arctic region. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 1 Vector Name: ArcInfo polygon coverage of protected areas in Norway Feature_type: poly Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage of protected areas in Norway Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 2 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of protected areas in Norway Feature_type: point Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of protected areas in Norway Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 3 Vector Name: ArcInfo polygon coverage of protected areas in Svalbard Feature_type: polygon Vector Summary: ArcInfo polygon coverage of protected areas in Svalbard Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 4 Vector Name: ArcInfo point coverage of bird sanctuaries on Svalbard Feature_type: points Vector Summary: ArcInfo point coverage of bird sanctuaries on Svalbard. Members informations: Attached Vector(s): MemberID: 5 Vector Name: Six ArcInfo coverage of protected areas on Svalbard Projection: geographic lambert Projection_meas: decimal degrees metres Feature_type: polyarcpt Vector Summary: Six ArcInfo coverage used for the study of protected areas on Svalbard. Coverage includes: svalco, svalco1, svalco2, sval_eco, sval_veg and svern1.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, terrestrial ecosystems, agriculture, unep, grid, biological diversity and protected areas, protected areas, norway, un, forest protection, geographic region, forest science, national parks and protected areas, europe, national parks, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Weekly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Engineering-geocryological Investigations, Urengoy gasfield, Western Siberia, Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of data from approximately 1,200 engineering-geocryological boreholes, of approximate 12 m depth. The following parameters are collected for each borehole: ground type, cryotextures, soil moisture every 0.5 m, dry density every 0.5 to 1 m, and temperature every 1 m.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, soil moisture, water content, ggd, geocryology, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, boreholes, urengoy gasfield, western siberian arctic, russia, thermal properties, russia, soil temperature, permafrost properties, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, land records, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, permafrost temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, engineering, eastern europe, permafrost, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, 
TITLE: Chlorine (Cl) Measurements Collected by the NOAA CMDL Flask Sampling Network at NOAA CMDL HATS. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) has collected chlorine (Cl), equivalent chlorine (ECl), and effective equivalent chlorine (EECl) from measurements of CFC-11, CFC-12, CH3CCl3, and CCl4 from gas chromatographs located at 4 or 5 remote locations (BRW, NWR, MLO, SMO, SPO; see below for key to abbreviations) equipped with electron-capture detectors and measurements of Halon-1211, Halon-1301, HCFC-22, HCFC-142b, HCFC-141b, HFC-134a from flasks sampled at 7 remote locations and analyzed by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry or electron-capture detection. Only north and south hemispheric and gloabl abundances are reported. NOAA CMDL HATS stations are at Point Barrow, Alaska (BRW); Mauna Loa, Hawaii (MLO); Cape Matatula, American Samoa (SMO); and, South Pole, Antarctica (SPO). Cooperative stations are at Niwot Ridge, Colorado (NWT); Alert, Canada (ALT); and Cape Grim, Australia (CGO). Principal investigators for the HCFC flask measurements are: S. Montzaka, J. Elkins, and J. Butler (NOAA CMDL) The NOAA CMDL data are available via anonymous ftp as follows: "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats " or "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov hats totalcl" For more information on the NOAA CMDL NOAH program see: "http:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov noah " A subset of this data is available from the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) as part of the Trends collection. "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov". KEYWORD: atmosphere, halons, arctic ocean, halon-1301, ccl4, greenhouse effect, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, usa, noaa, noaa, northern hemisphere, cfc-12, north america, alaska, hcfc-142b, cfc-11, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, ground stations, noah, trace gases, trace species, australia, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, cape grim, global warming, gas chromatographs, canada, ocean, chlorofluorocarbons, mauna loa, southern hemisphere, amd, geographic region, equivalent chlorine, flask, continent, hfc-134a, american samoa, cape matatula, global, flasks, greenhouse gas, united states of america, alert, cmdl, halon-1211, polar, ftp, hawaii, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, pacific ocean, australia, new zealand, earth science, effective equivalent chlorine, ceos, ch3ccl3, colorado, chlorine, hydrofluorocarbons, samoa, niwot ridge, point barrow, hcfc-22, hcfc-141b, central pacific ocean, south pole, 
TITLE: Ellesmere Island Paleocene Mollusc Stable Isotope Data. ABSTRACT: The data consist of oxygen and carbon isotope measurement of carbonate samples microdrilled from sequential growth increments of 1 specimen of the bivalve Arctica ovata. The sample was collected by L. Marincovich, Jr., from the Mount Moore Formation of the Eureka Sound Group on Ellesmere Island, Canada. At the time of publication (1996), the age of the sample was estimated to be Danian. This sample is Field No. 84LM14. Abstract Characterizing polar climates during past warm intervals is important for understanding "greenhouse" climate dynamics because high-latitude surface temperatures and precipitation patterns are extremely sensitive to global climatic conditions. Model-data comparisons of high-latitude climates during past warm intervals (Cretaceous-Eocene, Pliocene) are currently at odds. Specifically, simulations of past warm climates produce polar regions characterized by sub-freezing temperatures and significant seasonality, whereas limited fossil proxy data indicate higher mean annual temperatures and low seasonality (i.e. an equable climate). We have constructed a data set to infer northern hemisphere polar marine temperatures during the late Paleocene. Seasonal and mean annual temperature and the oxygen isotopic composition of precipitation are reconstructed for an Arctic coastal setting during the Thanetian (57-58 Ma) using fossil shell stable isotope profiles. We estimate that coastal water temperatures varied between 10 and 15 degrees C during the seasons of growth, presumably spring, summer and fall. These findings support paleontological evidence, implying Northern Hemisphere polar climates were seasonally warm during the late Paleocene. In addition, estuarine fossil oxygen isotope profiles show periodic excursions to low values (as low as -19 per mil VPDB), which indicate seasonal pulses of isotopically-depleted freshwater.. KEYWORD: paleo start date 58 ma, late paleocene, past global changes, igbp, ellesmere island, cenozoic, arctic, north atlantic ocean, danian, isotope, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, paleogene, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, paleocene, polar, earth science, ceos, d18o, phanerozoic, d13c, ocean, paleo stop date 57 ma, atlantic ocean, geographic region, carbon isotopes, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: The AVHRR quick-looks service: AVHRR quick-looks from Tromso Satellite Station (Norway) coverage area distributed in near-real time. ABSTRACT: Tromso Satellite Station (TSS) is Norway's national receiving station for data from polar orbiting satellites. TSS location is ideal for reception of data from polar orbiting satellites. The area covered by TSS includes the entire Arctic from West Greenland to the Russian Taymyr peninsula, as well as the Northern part of Europe and larger parts of Russia. Since 1973 Tromso Satellite Station (TSS) has received data from the NOAA satellites. Using the national part of the internet, Uninett, TSS has established a near real-time processing and distribution system for NOAA AVHRR data. Quick looks, raw data set, geo-corrected data sets, SST and weather images are available for near real-time delivery to customers in Norway and other countries that can be reached using Internet or ISDN. The processing and distribution time for these products are typically 1-3 hours. The AVHRR data for the entire coverage area of TSS is also stored on optical disks. This archive is a part of the ESA TIROS Co-ordinated Network. The NOAA AVHRR QL Service service is based on WWW or FTP and the quick-looks are a view of a whole pass, with the data resampled to a spatial resolution of 3 km.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, arctic, noaa poes, vegetation, infrared imagery, ocean temperature, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, sea surface, esa, esrin, spectral, engineering, ql, avhrr, europe, land cover, sea surface temperature, polar, vertical location, infrared wavelengths, meteorology, quick-look, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, remote sensing, land surface, northern europe, biosphere, land resources, idn_node esrin, tss, visible wavelengths, ocean, oceanography, climatology, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) Site Data, North Slope of Alaska. ABSTRACT: As part of the Arctic Long Term Ecological Research (ARC LTER) project, numerous investigators have collected diverse environmental data from sites in the northern foothills of Alaska's Brooks Range. Data collected since 1975 include observations of climate, tundra plant communities and productivity, soils and thaw depth, stream flow, chemistry and temperature of streams and lakes, lake productivity, and nutrient cycling. Research goals include monitoring and predicting biotic responses to climatic change. Data collection was supported by NSF LTER award #9810222. These data are archived at the Arctic Long Term Ecological Research Web site.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, current meters, biological classification, opp9615563, bsr8507493, deb-8702328, plant biomass, arctic, lter, water temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, precipitation, opp-9911278, alaska, sestonic chlorophyll, net radiation, thermometers, soil temperature, soil depth probe, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, stable isotopes, stream gauges, solar radiation, toolik lake, biosphere, insects, barometers, opp9318529, animals, vertebrates, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, discharge, flow, bsr8806635, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, deb-981022, animals, invertebrates, brooks range, air temperature, oksrukuyik river, stream flow, nutrients, usa, nsf, sagavanirktok river, temperature, opp9911278, opp-9318529, bsr-8507493, deb981022, probes, soils, surface winds, polar, deb8702328, zooplankton, fixed observation stations, climate, opp-9911681, national science foundation, fish, opp9911681, kuparuk river, arctic long term ecological research site, nsidc, precipitation amount, stream discharge, atmospheric temperature, bsr-8806635, deb-9211775, arthropods, kuparuk basin, bsr9019055, field surveys, arcss010, opp-9615411, north america, co2 analyzers, north slope, tundra vegetation, meteorological stations, par, opp-9732281, opp9615411, maps, arctic system science data coordination center, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, opp9732281, surface water, primary production, opp-9615949, geographic region, opp-9615942, water physics, arcss, lake water temperature, arcss, laii, opp9615942, vegetation, light transmission, opp-9415411, opp9615949, ecology, long-term ecological research, united states of america, hexapods, opp-9400722, deb9211775, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, epilithic chlorophyll, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, thermistors, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, opp9400722, adcc, opp9415411, fish growth, bsr-9019055, arctic lter, opp-9615563, arc lter, 
TITLE: North American Bird Banding Summary Retrieval File. ABSTRACT: [For a more detailed metadata record, see: "http:  gcmd.gsfc.nasa.gov brd brd_birdband.html"] The Banding Retrieval File contains summarized records for data through the last full calendar year for all game birds banded since 1908, and for all nongame birds banded since 1954. A summary record includes all birds of the same species, age and sex, with the same status and additional information codes, banded under the same permit number, within the same region and 10-minute block of latitude and longitude, during the same month and 5-day banding period, the same band type, and band number prefix. The Banding Retrieval File contains over 9 million records representing over 50 million birds processed through August 1995. The file increases by approximately 1.2 million birds each year. Data are displayed in the following order: species number, region, year, permit, month, day code, status and additional information, age, sex, latitude, longitude, direction code, prefix and part of band suffix, total number of birds. A file format is included with all disks to assist the user in separating the fields. Listings have the fields separated and identified. The numerical codes in the data can be translated with the aid of the Bird Banding Manual, vol. 1 part 5. Status code in the first column indicates that something was done to the bird upon recapture that changed the orginal status. Includes range of North American species. Range includes breeding, wintering and migration locations. Wintering ranges can include South America, Africa, Europe. Breeding can occur as far north as the Arctic. However, the species being studied are North American species. Data and software tools to analyze the bird banding data can be obtained from the anonymous ftp site:. KEYWORD: tagging, biological classification, ecological dynamics, survival rates, arctic, range, range changes, global, birds, migratory rates, routes, breeding range, brd, polar, north american species, earth science, banding, usa, nasa, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, marking, species, population interactions, migration, geographic region, winter range, 
TITLE: Surface Radiation Measurements at the Koldewey Ground Station (Arctica). ABSTRACT: Daily averaged radiation data are available from 31 July 1992. Since 1992 surface radiation measurements have been carried out by the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research (AWI) at Koldewey Station in the framework of the Baseline Surface Radiation Network (BSRN) in cooperation with the Norsk Polarinstitutt. The radiation signals are taken in one minute intervals and stored as averages over 5 minutes. They include: - global radiation (pyranometer CM11, Kipp+Zonen), - reflected solar radiation (pyranometer CM11, Kipp+Zonen), - diffuse sky radiation (pyranometer CM11, Kipp+Zonen), - direct solar radiation (NIP, Eppley mounted on a sun tracker), - OG1 (global>530nm, pyranometer CM11, Kipp+Zonen), - RG8 (global>695nm, pyranometer CM11, Kipp+Zonen), - UV (300-370nm, TUVR, Eppley), - sunshine duration (Solar 111, Haenni), - downward long-wave radiation (pyrgeometer Eppley), - upward long-wave radiation (pyrgeometer Eppley). The pyranometers and pyrgeometers are ventilated with slightly preheated air to minimize hoar frost problems and zero offsets during cloudless and windless conditions. The instruments were maintained continuously several times per day throughout the year. After one year of operation they are re-calibrated at the German Weather Bureau according the World Radiometric Reference (WRR). At AWI, the radiation measurements - averaged over 5 minutes - are archived together with the data from the mast measurements, daily upper air soundings and routine synoptic surface observations in a relational database (SYBASE). Additionally some derived quantities (Iqbal 1983) such as the solar elevation, extraterrestrial solar insolation, astronomical sunshine duration are available. In order to obtain daily averaged radiation data, each day was subdivided into eight 3-hourly intervals (0-3, 3-6, ..., 21-24 UTC). For each 3-hourly interval an average was derived irrespective of the number of measurements. This procedure was chosen in order to minimize problems resulting from missing values. If one or more 3-hourly averages were missing, no daily average was calculated. Data are accessible via Web network by means of the AWI-Home-Page, 'http:  www.awi-bremerhaven.de', and can be obtained from AWI after prior consultation.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, ground truth, idn_node esrin, dlr, sunshine, global radiation, diffuse radiation, germany, dlr, arctic, baseline surface radiation net, pyrgeometers, pyranometers, insolation, long-wave radiation, sky radiation, og1, ground stations, radiation transfer models, heat flux, polar, rg8, bsrn, reflectance, meteorology, koldewey ground station, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, remote sensing, outgoing longwave radiation, surface observation, solar irradiance, monitoring, uv observation, direct radiation, ultraviolet radiation, longwave radiation, ocean, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, reflected solar radiation, sunshine duration, 
TITLE: Canadian Transect of Soils and Vegetation for the Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Map. ABSTRACT: This report summarizes environmental, vegetation, and soil data collected from 116 releves along a 2000-km transect from Amund Ringnes, Axel Heiberg, and Ellesmere Islands in the northern Canadian Arctic to a site at the southern edge of the Canadian tundra. Data include sample site descriptions (e.g., thaw depths, aspect, and surficial geology); soil pH, chemistry, and texture; and vascular, bryophyte, and lichen species cover. Scientists involved in the Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Mapping (CAVM) project, with the help of undergraduate students enrolled in a University of Minnesota field course, conducted this north-south transect study of the Canadian Arctic to investigate large-scale climate-related variations in vegetation.. KEYWORD: opp-9732076, soil descriptions, biological classification, alpine, tundra, releve plots, vegetation height, plant communities, atlas, daring lake, arctic, dwarf shrubs, usa, noaa, arctic system science, bryophytes, vascular plants, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, ground-based observations, canadian arctic soils, black top ridge, soil sampler, soil pits, vegetation description, vegetation cover, phytogeographic subzones, riparian habitats, biosphere, snowbeds, east wind lake, opp9732076, permafrost, photographs, organic matter, sedges, releves, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, tundra ecosystems, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, soil taxonomy, ellesmere island, stratigrapher river, resolute bay, floristic surveys, mosses, hornworts, liverworts, cameras, usa, nsf, canadian arctic vegetation, dwarf shrub tundra, plants, soil particle size analysis, soils, canadian arctic, polar, vegetational, canadian arctic transect, national science foundation, fungi, soil organic matter content, nsidc, soil moisture, water content, lacustrine wetlands, canadian transect, braun-blanquet, hare ridge, eureka, vegetation species, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, dry tundra, arctic canada, north america, soil bulk density, tuktu river, arcss, laii, atlas, mount pelly, axel heiberg island, tundra vegetation, soil classification, phosphorus, texture estimates, arctic system science data coordination center, topography, cape levvel, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, landforms, amund ringnes island, toposequences, canada, victoria island, soil properties, geographic region, arcss, hadley bay, potassium, circumpolar arctic vegetation map, ph meters, soil analyses, vegetation, plant species cover, cornwallis island, climatic gradient, wetlands, substrates, vegetation ecology, riparian wetlands, soil texture, mosses, calcium, bunde fiord, soil moisture, nitrogen, arcss081, earth science, indigenous vegetation, ceos, wet tundra, land surface, field description, adcc, mesic tundra, vegetation communities, soil ph, vegetation classification, lichens, expedition fiord, thanhieser, environmental data, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Yearly Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with IKMT by 15th CHINARE in 1998-1999. ABSTRACT: 8 IKMT planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: The North American Breeding Bird Survey Results and Analysis, 1966-2005. ABSTRACT: The Breeding Bird Survey is a source of information about distributions and population changes of North American birds. It is also a tool for learning about birds, with with connections to the ID tips with pictures of common North American birds and quizzes on bird distribution and identification. The BBS is a large-scale survey of North American birds. It is a roadside survey, primarily covering the continental United States and southern Canada, although survey routes have recently been initiated in Alaska and northern Mexico. The BBS was started in 1966, and the over 3,500 routes are surveyed in June by experienced birders. The primary objective of the BBS has been the estimation of population change for songbirds. However, the data have many potential uses, and investigators have used the data to address a variety of research and management objectives. On the Home Page, we summarize results from the BBS, and supplement the results with pictures of birds and other species information.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, bird occurrences, arctic, earth science, ceos, birds, bird lists, bird counts, breeding birds, animals, vertebrates, breeding bird survey analysis, breeding bird survey, united states of america, canada, north america, survey, breeding bird, geographic region, distribution maps, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: AWI Moored ULS Data, Greenland Sea and Fram Strait, 1991-2002. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Upward Looking Sonar (ULS) data from 11 moorings in the Greenland Sea. Parameters in the processed data files include ice draft, water pressure, and water temperature. Raw data files with sonar travel time, and files with draft frequency of occurrence, are available as well. A single statistical file for each mooring summarizes that mooring's record. These data were contributed by the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Bremerhaven, Germany, in 2002 and 2004, as a contribution to the World Climate Research Programme's Arctic Climate System Study Climate and Cryosphere (ACSYS CliC) Project. Data are available via FTP. NSIDC strongly encourages you to register as a user of this data product. As a registered user, you will be notified of updates and corrections. When registering, please include the title of this data set, AWI Moored ULS Data, Greenland Sea and Fram Strait, 1991-2002.. KEYWORD: ice draft, nsidc, continent, arctic ocean, moored buoys, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, national snow and ice data center, ocean temperature, field surveys, usa, noaa, buoys, greenland, north america, sea ice, moored upward looking sonar, sea ice motion, terrestrial hydrosphere, fram strait, under-ice surface, polar, fixed observation stations, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, upward looking sonar, greenland sea, sea ice draft, surface water, world climate research program, ocean, ice depth, thickness, oceans, ocean pressure, geographic region, wcrp, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m ISIN Grid V003. ABSTRACT: Snow cover products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded daily and eight-day composites, at 500 m resolution. A snow mapping algorithm, based on the Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests, is used to process MODIS data. The eight day level 3 product (MOD10A23) contains fields for maximum snow cover extent over an eight day compositing period, and a chronology of snow occurrence observations. This 500 m product consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of data gridded in an integerized sinusoidal map projection. Snow cover data and supporting attributes are in HDF-EOS format, and are available by ftp. This data set represents Version 3 (V003) of the MODIS processing scheme. The V003 collection contains reprocessed V001 data from 5 March 2001 onward and V003 data from 24 May 2001 onward. V003 data contain processing refinements accommodating algorithm, instrument and calibration stabilization. V003 start dates will continually shift to earlier dates as V001 data are reprocessed to V003. After V003 data are generated for a given day, the V001 data for the same day will still be available for ordering through the EOS Data Gateway (EDG) for at least six months. Eventually, V003 data will completely replace V001 data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, snomap, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, swath, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: S. Forward Sortation Areas Cartographic Boundary File, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The 2001 Census Forward Sortation Areas Cartographic Boundary File is available as a standard package for Canada. It depicts forward sortation area (FSA) boundaries derived from postal codes captured from the 2001 Census questionnaires. Through analysis of the postal codes reported by census households, a single FSA was assigned to each dissemination area (most often the FSA reported by the largest number of census households). FSA polygons were formed by grouping dissemination areas. Therefore, the Census based FSA boundaries are not equivalent to FSA boundaries in use by Canada Post, but are representations created from dissemination areas. Catalogue number: 92F0170XCE ...for additional information visit our organization's website.The 2001 Census Forward Sortation Areas Cartographic Boundary File product is released as a geographic reference tool for 2001 Census data, providing a spatial representation of Forward Sortation Areas as reported by Census respondents. The product, in conjunction with Statistics Canada data, can be used for applications such as site location analysis, planning of service delivery and various types of data analysis and mapping. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 CNT Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, land use, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, forward sortation areas, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, provincial differences, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, computer aided mapping, 
TITLE: Pakitsoq Greenland Ice Methane Carbon Isotope Data. ABSTRACT: d13CH4 in air dating between 11,360 and 12,220 years before the present was measured in ice samples from the Pakitsoq outcrop (Western Greenland). The record covers the transition between the Younger Dryas (YD) and Preboreal Holocene (PB), when temperature and CH4 increased rapidly at the termination of the last ice age. A total of 82 ice samples from Pakitsoq were analyzed for d13CH4 of enclosed air. The estimated range in age per sample is ca. 25 - 35 yr, which includes both sample thickness and gas age distribution due to diffusion and bubble enclosure. For replicate measurements (multiple ice samples of equal age) we report mean values with standard errors. For single measurements we show analytical precision as derived from the standard ice measurements during that measurement period. Several kinds of visible post-depositional features in the ice, such as fractures, layers or occlusions of dust, as well as certain bubble free bands, were associated with anomalously high values for both [CH4] and d13CH4, compared to surrounding unaffected samples. 11 samples were rejected from the final data set for this reason. Pakitsoq age scale The gas age scale used for assigning dates according to location in the sample profile is derived by comparison of three geochemical records from Pakitsoq and GISP2. Start and end points of prominent fluctuations in d15N, CH4, and d18Oice observed in Pakitsoq were matched with corresponding events recorded in GISP2. The tie points are: (i) the start and peak of the end-of-YD d15N increase; (ii) the start and end of the Allerod - YD CH4 decline; (iii) the d18Oice minimum during the intra-Allerod cold period; and (iv) the d18Oice drop into the YD and rise into the PB. The corresponding ages of the GISP2 age scale were corrected by -80 yr to match the date of 11,570 yrBP for the end-of-YD event derived from tree ring ages and assigned to the Pakitsoq inflection points as fixed ages. Between these dates, which are apart by 500 yr at the most, age was interpolated linearly. ABSTRACT: We report atmospheric methane carbon isotope ratios (d13CH4) from the Western Greenland ice margin spanning the Younger Dryas-to-Preboreal (YD-PB) transition. Over the recorded ~800 years, d13CH4 was around -46 per mil; that is, ~1 per mil higher than in the modern atmosphere and ~5.5 per mil higher than would be expected from budgets without 13C-rich anthropogenic emissions. This requires higher natural 13C-rich emissions or stronger sink fractionation than conventionally assumed. Constant d13CH4 during the rise in methane concentration at the YD-PB transition is consistent with additional emissions from tropical wetlands, or aerobic plant CH4 production, or with a multisource scenario. A marine clathrate source is unlikely.. KEYWORD: continent, ice core air bubbles, younger dryas, del13ch4, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, greenland, pages, paleo stop date 11.3 ka, north america, isotopes, preboreal, quaternary, polar, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, ch4, western greenland, paleo start date 12.2 ka, methane, ice core records, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MYD10C2) data set contains snow cover and Quality Assessment (QA) data, latitudes and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and corresponding metadata. This data set consists of 7200 columns by 3600 rows of global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 degree Climate Modeling Grid (CMG). MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, 
TITLE: Landslide Disasters in Canada 1840-1999. ABSTRACT: Landslide Disasters in Canada is a data base of significant landslide disasters in Canada during the years of 1840-1999, a period of 160 years (Evans, 1997; 1999). Life loss is adopted as the sole criterion for defining a landslide disaster in the Canadian context (Evans, 1997). In this initial attempt at a verified list for Canada, a landslide disaster is defined as a landslide event, or related geotechnical failure, that directly or indirectly results in at least three deaths. This criterion is to a large extent arbitrary but appears to approximate a Canadian disaster reporting threshold. For present purposes, the definition does not include a consideration of the costs of material damage.The Landslide Disasters in Canada database was assembled in collaboration with Emergency Preparedness Canada as a Canadian Contribution to the International Decade of Natural Disaster Reduction (IDNDR). z39.50s:  rgsc1.rgsc.nrcan.gc.ca:9999 LandslidePhotos_fr Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, geomorphic surfaces, northwest territories, human health, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, human dimensions, soils, yukon territory, polar, erosion, sedimentation, topography, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, landforms, environment, canada, cgdi, vital statistics, canada, prince edward island, landslides, new brunswick, mortality, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Coastal Video Surveys, Arctic and Atlantic Canada and the Queen Charlotte Islands. ABSTRACT: This data set is part of a large inventory of more than 9,000 km of aerial oblique coastal video coverage of Arctic and Atlantic Canada including Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, the west and south coasts of Newfoundland, part of Labrador and Hudson Bay, the Queen Charlotte Islands, various Arctic islands and the shores of the Beaufort Sea in the western Arctic. The video was shot from an aircraft, usually a helicopter, flying at an elevation of about 150 m and about 0.5 km or less from shore. Narration on the tapes includes a description of the coastal geology, place names and some interpretation of coastal processes. Many of the videos have been released through the GSC Open File system and these are accompanied by descriptive reports that include maps showing the details of the coverage. Other videos in the collection focus on seabed features and processes.The videos provide reconnaissance level information on coastal geology and features that can be used in a wide variety of applications including coastal zone management and coastal process studies. They provide a reference for mapping of shoreline types and sediment characteristics and can be used in marine oil spill contingency planning. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, geomorphology, gcmd, hecate strait, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, geology, coastal zone, northern hemisphere, north america, land cover, north pacific ocean, atlantic provinces, vertical location, polar, erosion, sedimentation, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, offshore western canada, aerial surveys, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, video tapes, erosion, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, queen charlotte islands, offshore eastern canada, 
TITLE: Daily Vertical Profiles of Atmospheric Aerosol Loading and Polar Stratospheric Clouds (PSC) in Antarctica using a LIDAR System. ABSTRACT: The format of this daily data set follows the File Format Specifications NASA-AMES used in many international campaigns on atmospheric soundings. Each data set is identified by SS followed by the date (i.e. SS010289 represents the data set of February 1st, 1989). Primary variables are the vertical profiles of the following parameters: - Squared Range corrected Lidar Signal (Pr2) - Aerosol Backscattering and Scattering Ratio by Lidar - Depolarisation ratio by Lidar (if available) - Pressure,Temperature and Humidity by Rawinsonde (if available) - O3 by Ozonesonde (if available) The Depolarization Backscattering Lidar (DBL) is part of a more complex DIAL System by a scientific cooperation between Service d'Aeronomie of CNRS (France) and IROE of CNR (Italy). Rawin- and Ozone-sonde are by Dumont d'Urville French Antarctic Station. All the profiles are normalized to the same altitudes. The profiles range are typically 5000-30000 m. The altitude resolutions are 30 or 75 m. A set of "auxiliary variables" preceed each group of profiles. They are: - Number of altitudes of the profiles - Date and Time,Averaging Time of the Lidar measure - Laser emission wavelength - Number of the integrated Lidar shots - Date and Time of the Rawinsonde launch (if available) - Latitude and Longitude - Coefficients for Extinction computing - Integrated Backscattering,Optical Depth with bottom and top edge - Telescope Field of View - Bandwidth of the interference filter A description header in the data set contains further details. A suitable processing routine by IROE computes the lidar profiles by row lidar signals that are not directly useful for scientific purposes. Studies on the stratospheric aerosol loading are very important for a better understanding of the physical and chemical phenomena strictly linked to the Ozone Hole in Antarctica. For more information, see: "http:  lid.iroe.fi.cnr.it". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, aerosols, light detection and ranging, programma nazionale di ricerche in antartide, arctic, air temperature, ozone, atmospheric pressure measurements, polar stratospheric clouds, amd, it, humidity, pnra, physics-chemistry, ground stations, lidar, rawinsonde, stratosphere, polar, vertical location, atmospheric vertical profiles, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, geophysics, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, aerosol backscatter, atmospheric chemistry, dumont d'urville station, water vapor, climatology, amd, geographic region, ozonesonde, 
TITLE: Canada Basin Ocean 1 Infauna CCGC Louis S. St. Laurent 2002-23. ABSTRACT: This dataset investigates the macro- and megabenthos of the Canada Basin, which is one of the biologically least known areas of the Arctic deep sea. Macro-infauna was collected with 11 box cores at six stations ranging from 640 to 3,250 m water depth. Total abundance ranged from 3 to 265 individuals 0.04 square meters (756,625 individuals per square meters) and decreased with increasing depth. Biomass ranged from 0.04 to 228 mg wet weight 0.04 m2 (15,700 mg wet weight per square meter) and followed the same trend. Polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves dominated the faunal densities, biomass and species numbers. A total of 90 benthic invertebrate species taxa (including 15 identified from under-water imager), not part of this data set) from four biogeographic affinities were identified, including at least three new species of Isopoda. The evident low abundances and biomass are in agreement with findings from the Eurasian Arctic deep sea. This dataset exist in Excel format, and presents the foundation for a scientific publication by Bluhm et al (2005). To assess species composition, abundance and distribution of the infauna of the Arctic Canada Basin.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biomass, infauna, ecological dynamics, abundance, arctic, earth science, ceos, box core, biosphere, distribution, biomass dynamics, canada basin, ecosystem functions, northwind ridge, canada, north america, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Physical, chemical and biological characteristics of soils from the upper Garwood Valley, Ross Sea Region, 2002-2006.. ABSTRACT: These data consist of a number of subsets of soil samples gathered from the upper Garwood Valley in January 2002, January 2003, January 2005 and January 2006. Replicate randomly-located samples of surface soils to 10 cm depth have been gathered from the most common landforms in the area. Within the most widespread landforms, the same type of samples have been gathered along transects of increasing distance from Lake Colleen in the valley's centre. A third subset relates to soils on an experimental site at which the biotic response to additional of local biotic detritus (algal mat and lakeshore foams). For each soil sample, field and later lab-based measurements include: bulk density, texture, repeated measurements of moisture content and temperature at depths of 1 cm and 5 cm, organic carbon (after acidification to remove carbonates) and total nitrogen by Carlo Erba elemental analyzer, ammonium and nitrate (in KCl extraction) by TRAACS auto-analyzer, chlorophyll concentration, field CO2 flux at ambient temperature at the soil surface by LiCor 6400, lab CO2 flux at controlled (and varied) temperature and moisture by LiCor 6400, and lab CO2 fluxes after addition of carbon and nitrogen at controlled temperature and moisture by LiCor 6400. Results indicate relatively high rates of soil respiration and thus turnover of the soil carbon pool, and possible limitations by both carbon and nitrogen under different conditions. Subsamples of soil samples have been stored at -80C for future analysis of microbial diversity using DNA and RNA probing techniques.. KEYWORD: continent, soil moisture, water content, respiration rate, ecological dynamics, soil respiration, decomposition, field surveys, the antarctic dry valley soils project, biogeochemical cycles, agriculture, biomass dynamics, photosynthesis, carbon, denitrification rate, soil temperature, soils, biodiversity functions, soil gas, air, dvs, polar, nitrogen, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, garwood valley, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, soil fertility, biosphere, autoanalyzer, antarctica, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, primary production, community structure, chn analyzers, laboratory, amd, nz, organic matter, amd, geographic region, microflora, 
TITLE: The response of sea ice and brine water algae and bacteria to changes in salinity, temperature, light and UVB in Terra Nova Bay. ABSTRACT: Samples of the bottom ice algae and brine algae (within 30cm of the top of the ice) were subjected to temperature, salinity, light and UVB experiments and analysed with PAM rapid light curves to determine the response of the algae to changes they will encounter during the processes of ice formation at the start of winter and ice melting in summer. Brine algae are likely to be adapted to high light and high UVB conditions near the surface of the ice and may have produced higher levels of protective pigments, MAA's, therefore the content of MAA's was analysed. Imaging PAM fluorometry was also used to gain a 3D image of photosynthetic stressors during the process of ice freeze and thaw on both algae and bacterial cells. The difference in thylakoid structure with increase in temperature was also analysed. Bacterial cells were collected at the end of exposure and a CTC assay was performed on them to determine the effect of UVB radiation. Bottom ice algae exposed to different light levels and UV exposure was analysed for cell counts, antioxidants and MAAs. Bacterial response to changes in light and salinity was examined by adding a fluorescent stain (CTC) to a melted entire sea ice core, a brine sample and a bottom ice sample and exposing the samples to various combinations of light and salinity. Samples were examined for cells that fluoresce due to metabolized CTC. The bacterial response to light and the presence absence inhibition of microalgae was examined using the vital stain and probe technique after exposing melted ice core samples to a range of irradiances for 4 hours. Samples of the brine community were collected and incubated for 5 days to determine the longer term response to light. Tritiated leucine was used calibrate the use of the CTC method.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, ecological dynamics, bacteria, archaea, lgp, photosynthesis, plants, phytoplankton, microalgae, plankton, water quality, water chemistry, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, pam, portable fluorescence analyzers, polar, eba, latitudinal gradient project, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, terra nova bay, biosphere, antarctica, field investigation, ecosystem functions, primary production, laboratory, amd, nz, amd, geographic region, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Landsat 7 Level 1-G Imagery over Canada. ABSTRACT: In cooperation with federal and provincial governments, GeoGratis is distributing full resolution Landsat 7 imagery for all of Canada. Landsat 7 data are collected from a nominal altitude of 705 kilometers in a near-polar, near-circular, Sun-synchronous orbit at an inclination of 98.2 degrees, imaging the same 183-km swath of the Earth's surface every 16 days. The L1G product is a radiometrically and systematically corrected L0R image. The correction algorithms model the spacecraft and sensor using data generated by onboard computers during imaging events. The radiometrically corrected pixels are resampled for geometric correction and registration to an Earth location with a geodetic accuracy of 5 to 25 times the sensor ground instantaneous field of view.To educate and promote geomatics use by providing, free of charge, satellite imagery of Canada. Landsat 7 L1-G data is valuable for both commercial and educational purposes.. KEYWORD: mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, northern hemisphere, forest fire science, north america, ontario, great slave lake, spectral, engineering, forest protection, forest science, land cover, near infrared bands, infrared wavelengths, land productivity, topography, nova scotia, land use, land cover, forest products, commodities, ultraviolet wavelengths, landforms, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, hudson bay, canada, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, western hemisphere, visible reflectance, landsat-7, continent, newfoundland and labrador, forest mensuration, visible imagery, near infrared albedo, reforestation, infrared imagery, nunavut, northwest territories, agriculture, united states of america, saskatchewan, yukon territory, vertical location, polar, forest yields, great lakes, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, quebec, forest management, alberta, near ir, prince edward island, enhanced infrared imagery, landsat, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua and SeaWiFS Level 3 9KM Monthly Merged Chlorophyll Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of merged satellite measurements of global ocean chlorophyll data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform, and the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWIFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . SeaWiFS processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html . The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level-3 9 km merged chlorophyll products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods once the refined products for each of the contributing missions are processed. Increased coverage over the single mission product is realized through the merging of the two data sets. There is a substantial improvement (> 50%) in coverage at the daily level, decreasing with the increase in the temporal period binned. The MODIS SeaWiFS merged product is generated in essentially two steps. First, the MODIS Level-3 file is reduced in resolution from 4 to 9 km to match the global resolution of the SeaWiFS chlorophyll product. This involves combining the sum and sum squared field values for the (typically) four 4 km bins into the corresponding single 9 km bin. In the second step, the reduced-resolution MODIS file and the corresponding SeaWiFS Level-3 file are combined. Because both input files are at the same 9 km resolution, the summing is performed bin-by-bin. The Standard Mapped Image file that is generated from the merged Level-3 binned file stores scaled 16 bit integer values rather than the usual 8 bit values, giving the user much greater numerical precision. The actual images displayed on the Ocean Color website in PNG format are provided for visual inspection only. Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level 3 Merged Chlorophyll data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov Merged . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes solar flux and net radiation measurements as recorded by an Eppley precision spectral pyranometer and Eppley precision infrared radiometer (pyrgeometer), respectively. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, shortwave radiation, lter, arctic, solar flux, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, licor quantum sensor, par, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, biosphere, antarctica, longwave radiation, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: Russian Historical Soil Temperature Data. ABSTRACT: This data set is a collection of monthly and annual average soil temperatures measured at Russian meteorological stations. Data were recovered from many sources and compiled by staff at the University of Colorado, USA, and the Russian Academy of Sciences in Puschino, Russia. Soil temperatures were measured at depths of 0.02 to 3.2 m using bent stem thermometers, extraction thermometers, and electrical resistance thermistors. Data coverage extends from the 1800s through 1990, but is not continuous. Data are not available for all stations for the entire period of coverage. For example, data collection began at many stations in the 1930s and 1950s, and not all stations continued taking measurements through 1990. This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of Polar Programs (OPP) awards OPP-9614557, OPP-9907541, and OPP-0229766. Data are available as ASCII text files via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, electrical resistance thermistors, arctic, opp9614557, opp9614537, bent thermometers, usa, noaa, arcss078, usa, nsf, russia, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, atm, europe, ground-based observations, polar, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, extraction thermometers, soil temperatures, eastern europe, historical data, national science foundation, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, opp-9614557, russian hydrometeorological stations, nsf, opp, opp-9614537, siberia, 
TITLE: Copepod species composition and associated chlorophyll data from Resolute Passage between 1983 and 1989. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes data collected from the ice station set up in Resolute Passage, 74 degrees 40'N and 94 degrees 54'W between the years 1983 to 1989. Plankton samples were collected using a 1 2m ring net with 100-200u mesh towed vertically from approximately 2 metres off the bottom to the surface. The samples collected were preserved in 4% formaldehyde and later analysed for species stage composition for the dominant copepod taxa: Pseudocalanus, Metridia, Calanus hyperboreus, C. glacialis, Oithona, Oncaea, Microcalanus. All other species of copepods were lumped together into the category "other". Associated chlorophyll and phaeophytin data are available. The associated nutrient data was of poor quality and not archived. To investigate the plankton community structure and establish a baseline to monitor ecosystem changes in the Arctic.. KEYWORD: oithona, continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, gcmd, crustaceans, calanus hyperboreus, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, none, nunavut, biomass dynamics, resolute passage, northern hemisphere, north america, metridia, copepod abundance, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, polar, ocean chemistry, pigments, zooplankton, pelagic habitat, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, pseudocalanus, ecosystem functions, calanus glacialis, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, microcalanus, oceans, geographic region, western hemisphere, oncaea, 
TITLE: North Slope Alaska Lake Inventory Water Classification; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: North Slope Alaska Lake Inventory Water Classification is a digital data set containing water classification images that can be output to 1:250,000 and 1:63,360 scale maps and text files with the following lake attributes per 1:250,000 scale quadrangle: unique lake number, acre size of a particular lake class (such as shallow, turbid, deep, and ice), latitude longitude of the lake center, lake depth, and comments. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cell size. Data source is Landsat MSS landcover classifications. This data set contains 54 records. The file structure is sequential. Subsets and custom formats are available. Limited documentation is available. Data is used to locate deep lakes for human use and in gas oil exploration during the winter months. Data can be output to 1:250,000 and 1:63,360 scale maps and text files. General area covered is the North Slope of Alaska north of 69th parallel. Data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic, aedd, ice, infrared, mss, rivers, stream habitat, north america, alaska, imagery, sea ice, weather, spectral, engineering, north slope, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, petroleum, terrestrial hydrosphere, infrared wavelengths, hydrology, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, water, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, snow, geographic region, usgs, lake, usa, usgs, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, natural resources, landcover, infrared imagery, geology, united states of america, land, lakes, satellite, elevation, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, rivers, streams, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Beringian Seabird Colony Catalog (2004). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Beringian Seabird Colony Catalog is a computerized, GIS-based database, maintained by the Division of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in anchorage, Alaska. It contains the locations and names of seabird breeding colonies in Alaska (AK) and Russia (RU), the species of birds that nest in each colony, and the numbers of each species. The colony number consists of a map number and a site number. Map number (1 - 153) refers to a USGS 1:250,000 quadrangle, which is not the same as official USGS map number. A site number refers to a specific colony and is not duplicated within the quadrangle. The site name is derived from an official name on USGS map, if one exists; otherwise a descriptive name was invented. PURPOSE: We count birds in some colonies (or in parts of the colonies) each summer. This tells us whether the birds' populations are healthy. If a population is getting smaller, we study it and try to learn what the problem is. In the area that was affected by the Exxon Valdez oil spill, we study seabirds to learn whether they are recovering from the oil. We count the birds in winter and summer. We study how many eggs the birds lay and how many young birds they raise each summer. We also study how they find their food at sea. We work with observer programs to learn how many birds are caught in fishing gear. This tells us whether seabird breeding populations are impacted by fisheries bycatch. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL DATA ORGANIZATION INFORMATION Direct Spatial Reference: Vector SDTS Point and Vector Object Type: Entity point Point and Vector Object Count: 4334 SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224 NATIVE: Microsoft Windows 2000 Version 5.0 (Build 2195) Service Pack 4; ESRI ArcCatalog 8.3.0.800. KEYWORD: albatrosses, obis, seamap, biological classification, herons, falconiforms, arctic, cormorants, dovekie, presense, eagles, sabine's gull, stilts, russia, alaska, animals, presence, waders, gulls, auks and allies, north pacific ocean, arctic tern, marine birds, population size, animals, vertebrates, murres, conservation, ibises, petrels, terns, thick-billed murre, guillemots, mew gull, loons, continent, albatrosses, petrels and allies, common eider, birds, common tern, grebes, pelicans, storm petrels, fulmars, shearwaters, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, europe, polar, hawks, oystercatchers, observation, pacific ocean, double-crested cormorant, puffins, population distribution, sighting, flamingos, eastern europe, endangered species, herons, egrets and allies, chordates, alcids, black-headed gull, shore-based survey, environmental assessments, north america, falcons, parakeet auklet, gulls, common murre, tufted puffin, vertebrates, ancient murrelet, auks, community structure, ocean, storks, geographic region, caspian tern, leach's storm-petrel, totipalmate swimmers, northern fulmar, absence, colony survey, abundance, great cormorant, gulf of alaska, obis-seamap, united states of america, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, avocets, black guillemot, bering sea, pelicans and allies, aircraft, earth science, shore, osprey, shore birds, slaty-backed gull, tube-nosed swimmers, glaucous gull, black-legged kittiwake, seabirds, ibises, spoonbills, herring gull, plovers, diurnal birds of prey, 
TITLE: The Brothers Islands Tern Monitoring Reports. ABSTRACT: Summary: Longtime local steward monitoring and managing the Roseate, Common and Arctic tern colony on The Brothers in Lobster Bay, southwest Nova Scotia under the direction of Canadian Wildlife Service. Also monitors other bird colonies of the Lobster Bay area. Waterbody or Watershed Names: Lobsters Bay. KEYWORD: gulf of maine, continent, arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, common and arctic tern colony, arctic, north atlantic ocean, nova scotia, earth science, birds, animals, vertebrates, ocean, canada, north america, roseate, gommp, gulf of maine monitoring programs, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: NASA SCP Arctic and Antarctic Ice Extent from QuikSCAT, 1999-2004. ABSTRACT: This data set provides sea ice extent for the Arctic (60-90N) and Antarctic (52-90S) in Scatterometer Image Reconstruction (SIR) binary image format, along with ASCII text files containing latitude and longitude coordinates along the sea ice edge, and browse images of SIR files in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format. Ancillary products include daily-averaged total sea ice extent (km**2) in ASCII format. Estimates of sea ice extent were produced from daily-averaged QuikSCAT sigma-0 measurements and extend from 19 July 1999 to 31 December 2004. QuikSCAT obtains 12 individual radar normalized backscatter (sigma-0) measurements, called 'slices,' for each footprint as it scans over a 1800 km wide swath. Slices are typically 4 to 6 km long by 20 km wide. The summed measurements of the slices are called 'egg' measurements. The effective resolution and shape of each egg measurement is approximately 20 by 30 km, depending on the antenna beam and instrument mode. This data set contains both slice and egg images for each day. The Microwave Earth Remote Sensing (MERS) group at Brigham Young University (BYU) developed a SIR-with-filtering (SIRF) algorithm that combines forward- and aft-looking sigma-0 measurements to produce enhanced-resolution backscatter images over various azimuth angles. The polarization ratio, incidence angle dependence, and the sigma-0 estimate error standard deviation were used to discriminate between sea ice and ocean. Sea ice extent was estimated for both slice and egg images. The nominal pixel resolution of the slice images is 2.225 km with an estimated effective resolution of approximately 4 km. Egg images have a nominal pixel resolution of 4.45 km with an estimated effective resolution of approximately 8 to 10 km. Data and browse images are available via FTP, along with C, Fortran, and Interactive Data Language (IDL) tools to read and display the SIR images.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, scatterometer climate record pathfinder, continent, satellite radar data, arctic, sea ice extent, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, scatterometer, eosdis, earth science information partners program, sea ice, scatterometers, satellites, polar, scp, amd, us, nsidc daac, nasa scatterometer climate record pathfinder, earth science, cryosphere, ku- band radar, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, quikscat, landforms, daac, nasa, ice sheets, quick recovery scatterometer, earth observing system data information system, oceans, amd, esip, geographic region, seawinds, 
TITLE: Landsat 5 TM Mosaic of Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This is an on-line Landsat 5 TM mosaic of Alaska. The mosaic resolution has been degraded from 30 metre pixels to 50 metre pixels. This data is freely available on-line, via the Spatial Image Web Server, and can be viewed using a standard Internet browser. This image can also be used directly in GIS CAD Office applications, with the use of free plug-ins available from www.ermapper.com (downloads section). A full resolution Landsat 5 TM mosaic of Alaska is available by contacting Spatial Mapping Ltd.To make large raster datasets instantly accessible to end users on their desktop applications, without requiring them to download, convert or enhance the data prior to its use. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Albers Conical Equal Area Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: WGS84 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, gcmd, surface radiative properties, mid-latitude, arctic, british columbia, gulf of alaska, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, platform characteristics, reflected infrared, yukon territory, bidirectional reflectance, north pacific ocean, vertical location, polar, infrared wavelengths, reflectance, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, land surface, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, orbital characteristics, geographic region, western hemisphere, landsat 5 tm, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: West Siberian Lowland Peatland GIS Data Collection. ABSTRACT: This dataset contains the West Siberian Lowland (WSL) peatland GIS data collection. The collection covers the entire West Siberian lowland and was compiled from a wide array of data under the auspices of the NSF-funded "Sensitivity of the West Siberian Lowland to Past and Present Climate" project (Smith et al., 2000; Smith et al., 2004). Detailed physical characteristics of 9,691 individual peatlands (patches) were obtained from previously unpublished Russian field and ancillary map data, previously published depth measurements, and field depth and core measurements taken throughout the region during field campaigns in 1999, 2000, and 2001. The data collection features eight layers containing the detailed peatland inventory, political, and hydrographic information. Point data consist of field and laboratory measurements of peat depth, ash content, and bulk density. This research was funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), grant number NSF-9818496.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, west siberia, sediment corers, arctic, national snow and ice data center, usa, noaa, arcss131, arctic system science, wetlands, usa, nsf, russia, peatlands, aquatic ecosystems, europe, ground-based observations, polar, maps, peatland, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, eastern europe, peatland type, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) Weather and Radiation Buoy Data, 2002-2004. ABSTRACT: This data set includes in situ air pressure, wind, temperature, longwave radiation, and shortwave radiation measurements. Data were recorded from 27 April 2002 through 24 April 2004 by weather stations and radiometers on drifting buoys near the North Pole that were deployed by the Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory (PMEL). A lack of solar energy, which is needed to power the radiometer batteries, rendered some data useless after mid-to-late September. The North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) is a year-round, automated scientific observatory, deploying various instruments each April in order to learn how the world's northernmost sea helps regulate global climate. It consists of a set of unmanned scientific platforms that record oceanographic, cryospheric, and atmospheric data throughout the year. More information about the project is available at the NPEO project Web site, http:  psc.apl.washington.edu northpole . Data are in ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, arctic ocean, north pole drifting station, atmospheric temperature, arctic, wind velocity, wind vectors, visible radiance, usa, noaa, buoys, arctic system science, atmospheric pressure measurements, arcss127, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, radiometers, longitude, ground-based observations, meteorological stations, infrared wavelengths, drifting buoys, wind speed, wind direction, office of polar programs, national science foundation, anemometers, barometers, north pole, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, visible wavelengths, ocean weather stations, ocean, buoy data, north pole environmental observatory, automated weather station data, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arcss, nsf, opp, air temperatures, shortwave radiation, latitude, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, pyrgeometers, pyranometers, usa, nsf, wind vanes, opp 9910305, surface winds, polar, earth science, ceos, thermistors, adcc, atmospheric pressure, radiation, arcss, npeo, 
TITLE: Vertical Boundary Layer Profiles for Ozone and Meteorological Parameters at Summit, Greenland, 2000. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ozone surface data and 133 meteorological and 82 ozone vertical profile measurements collected from the surface to a maximum altitude of 1400 meters above the ground surface in Summit, Greenland. The data were collected from a tethered balloon platform in June 2000. This research was funded by the National Science Foundation, grant number OPP-0097147.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, boundary layer winds, arctic, vertical boundary layer, usa, noaa, arctic system science, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, humidity, electrochemical concentration cell, air quality, ultraviolet ozone detectors, carbon monoxide, ozone depletion, office of polar programs, national science foundation, office of polar programs, atmospheric water vapor, opp, arcss100, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, longwave radiation, water vapor, wind speed and direction, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, shortwave radiation, balloons, boundary layer, air temperature, pyrgeometers, summit, pyranometers, ozone, greenland, usa, nsf, ozone vertical profile, measured pressure, uv ozone detectors, opp-0097147, radiosondes, radiative flux, polar, ozonesondes, tethersondes, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, atmospheric pressure, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, national science foundation, 
TITLE: NODC World Ocean Atlas 1994: CD-ROMs and Publications. ABSTRACT: The Ocean Climate Laboratory of NOAA's National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC) has completed the multivolume World Ocean Atlas 1994 and technical reports describing the data quality control and processing procedures. The atlas contains historical in situ temperature, salinity, oxygen, phosphate, nitrate, and silicate data, and global, objectively analyzed fields of these parameters on a one-degree latitude-longitude grid for selected standard depth levels from the sea surface to 5500 m depth. The atlas volumes include global distributions of these measured parameters as well as the derived quantities of oxygen saturation and Apparent Oxygen Utilization (AOU). The philosophy of this project is to produce a hierarchy of documented, value-added data sets and products so that investigators can use these data sets and products with an understanding of how the data have been analyzed and processed, and process the data using different methods if desired. The atlas data sets are also available on CD-ROM and Exabyte tape. The tape version is primarily for research scientists using workstations having sufficient computing power to handle large files. The set of 9 CD-ROMs contain the global objectively analyzed one-degree latitude-longitude mean fields for each parameter as well as the observed profile data and the interpolated standard depth level profile data. Quality control flags also exist in the data. See References for the quality control documentation. The ocean profile data are organized geographically on CD-ROM and by instrument type on Exabyte tape. The World Ocean Atlas 1994 represents an extension and continuation of the 1982 Climatological Atlas of the World Ocean. Since 1982, a great number of additional oceanographic profiles have accumulated in the archives. In particular, substantial numbers of older historical data have been submitted to the NODC. In addition, data gathered as a result of the NODC's National Oceanographic Data Archaeology and Rescue (NODAR) and the IOC IODE Global Oceanographic Data Archaeology and Rescue (GODAR) projects were included in this study. NODAR and GODAR seek to catalog and digitize data available only in manuscript or analog form. The World Ocean Atlas was prepared by Sydney Levitus, Timothy Boyer, Russell Burgett, and Margarita Conkright of the National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC). Annual,seasonal and monthly means are available. The multivolume World Ocean Atlas 1994 publications present global, objectively analyzed fields of major ocean parameters on a one-degree latitude-longitude grid for selected standard depth levels from the sea surface to 5500 m depth. Produced by the NODC Ocean Climate Laboratory, the atlases present analyses of temperature, salinity, oxygen, phosphate, nitrate, and silicate data. Two technical reports describing the data analysis and quality control procedures are also available. The gridded, objectively analyzed fields and the ocean profile data from which they were derived are available on a set of 10 CD-ROMs. World Ocean Atlas 1994 and the atlas data sets on CD-ROM were produced from the NODCs data holdings as of the first quarter of 1993. The atlas volumes are: Volume 1: Nutrients (NOAA Atlas NESDIS 1, 162 pp.); Volume 2: Oxygen (NOAA Atlas NESDIS 2, 202 pp.); Volume 3: Salinity (NOAA Atlas NESDIS 3, 111 pp.); Volume 4: Temperature (NOAA Atlas NESDIS 4, 129 pp.); Volume 5: Interannual Variability of Upper Ocean Thermal Structure (NOAA Atlas NESDIS 5, 176 pp.); Technical Report 79: Quality Control and Processing of Historical Oceanographic Nutrient Data; Technical Report 81: Quality Control and Processing of Historical Oceanographic Temperature, Salinity, and Oxygen Data. The set of CD-ROMs holds data sets issued along with the multivolume World Ocean Atlas 1994 produced by the NODC Ocean Climate Laboratory. The CD-ROMs contain both the global, objectively analyzed, gridded data sets of major ocean parameters and the observed level and standard level ocean profile data sets from which they were derived, as well as a data set of 5-degree square statistics that give means, standard deviations, and numbers of observations. The contents of the individual discs in this set are as follows: Disc 1 - Objectively analyzed temperature fields; Disc 2 - Objectively analyzed salinity fields and Five-degree square statistics; Disc 3 - Objectively analyzed oxygen, apparent oxygen utilization, oxygen saturation, phosphate, silicate, and nitrate fields; Disc 4 - Observed level profile data for the North Atlantic (0-40N), North Indian and South Indian Oceans; Disc 5 - Observed level profile data for the North Atlantic (40N-90N), and South Atlantic Oceans; Disc 6 - Observed level profile data for the North Pacific (0-30N), South Pacific Oceans; Disc 7 - Observed level profile data for the North Pacific (30N-90N) Ocean; Disc 8 - Standard level profile data for the North Pacific (30N-90N) Ocean; Disc 9 - Standard level profile data for the Atlantic and Indian Oceans; Disc 10 - Interannual variability of upper ocean thermal structure; Disc 11 - Replacement CTD data. The CD-ROMs are accompanied by a 3.5-inch diskette that provides documentation and sample programs (source code) for reading the gridded data sets. NOTE: Advanced programming skills are recommended for users of the data on this CD-ROM set. NOAAServer Codes: [OL 90 -80 180 -180] ; nodateline obtain. KEYWORD: oxygen - apparent utilization (aou), arctic ocean, aou, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, oxygen saturation, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, noaa, sea surface, analyses - seasonal summaries, dods dataset, oxygen, ocean chemistry, ocean_atlas_1994_seasonal, analyses - annual summaries, ocean, temperature - water, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, ocean_atlas_1994_annual, idn_node gsfc, noaa, nesdis, nodc, global, nitrate, oxygen - percent saturation, nutrients, analyses - monthly summaries, ocean_atlas_1994_monthly, earth science information partners program, apparent oxygen utilization, vertical location, polar, salinity, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, phosphate, ceos, silicate, dods, nodc(levitus) world atlas, esip, atlantic ocean, noaa-cires, cdc, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Copepod species composition and associated chlorophyll data from Resolute Passage (OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: This dataset includes data collected from the ice station set up in Resolute Passage, 74 degrees 40'N and 94 degrees 54'W between the years 1983 to 1989. Plankton samples were collected using a 1 2m ring net with 100-200u mesh towed vertically from approximately 2 metres off the bottom to the surface. The samples collected were preserved in 4% formaldehyde and later analysed for species stage composition for the dominant copepod taxa: Pseudocalanus, Metridia, Calanus hyperboreus, C. glacialis, Oithona, Oncaea, Microcalanus. All other species of copepods were lumped together into the category 'other'. Associated chlorophyll and phaeophytin data are available. The associated nutrient data was of poor quality and not archived. To investigate the plankton community structure and establish a baseline to monitor ecosystem changes in the Arctic. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis. OBIS schema concepts present in the data set include: DateLastModified, InstitutionCode, CollectionCode, CatalogNumber, ScientificName, BasisOfRecord, ScientificNameAuthor, Collector, YearCollected, MonthCollected, DayCollected, Ocean, Country, StateProvince, Country, Locality, Longitude, Latitude, MinimumDepth, MaximumDepth, Sex.. KEYWORD: oithona, arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, calanus hyperboreus, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, nunavut, obis, biomass dynamics, northern hemisphere, north america, metridia, copepod abundance, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity functions, polar, ocean chemistry, census of marine life, pigments, coml, zooplankton, pelagic habitat, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, pseudocalanus, ecosystem functions, calanus glacialis, ocean, canada, microcalanus, oceans, obis, ca, geographic region, western hemisphere, oncaea, 
TITLE: Permafrost Water Ice Chemistry in Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set is comprised of water and ice chemistry parameters from areas of massive ground ice in Kolguev Island and Svalbard in the west to Chukotka Peninsula in the east. Water, snow, and ice from different sources (e.g., lakes, rain, atmospheric precipitation, snow, snow patches, modern glaciers, lake ice, ground ice of different origin) were tested, as well as the enclosing deposits. Routine chemical analysis of ion composition, microelement (rare earth elements) analyses, and stable isotopes composition (O-18, D, C-13, S-34) were carried out. Microbal activity was determined. Ice petrography was studied with photos. Video-, photo- and topographic surveys of the study sections were undertaken.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, microelements, ggd, ion exchange, arctic, north atlantic ocean, ground water, usa, noaa, trace elements, svalbard, russia, ground ice, isotopes, snow, ice chemistry, ions, groundwater chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, europe, yugorsky peninsula, ground-based observations, glacial ice, global geocryological data system, polar, yamal peninsula, geochemistry, cryolithology, geohemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, cryosphere, microbiology, ceos, land surface, eastern europe, permafrost, ocean, snow, ice petrography, frozen ground, chukotka peninsula, atlantic ocean, geographic region, kolguevisland, 
TITLE: Polar Ozone and Aerosol Measurement II (POAM II) Data at NRL. ABSTRACT: The Polar Ozone and Aerosol Measurement II (POAM II) instrument was developed by the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) to measure the vertical distribution of atmospheric ozone, water vapor, nitrogen dioxide, aerosol extinction, and temperature. POAM II measures solar extinction in nine narrow band channels, covering the spectral range from approximately 350 to 1060 nm. POAM II was launched aboard the French SPOT-3 satellite on 26 september, 1993 into a Sun synchronous polar orbit. The POAM II mission was interrupted by the failure of the SPOT-3 satellite in November of 1996. The POAM II retrieval version 6.0 includes the following profile data: (1) Ozone concentration, 15-50 km (2) NO2 concentration, 20-40 km (3) Aerosol extinction at 1060 nm, 10-30 km (4) UKMO temperature, pressure, and potential vorticity, 0-60 km The ancillary profiles of temperature, pressure, and potential vorticity from the UK Meteorological Office (UKMO) have been interpolated to the location and time of the POAM II measurements. The MSISE-90 model has been used to extend these profiles above the top UKMO pressure level. POAM II data are available through anonymous FTP from ftp:  poamb.nrl.navy.mil pub poam2 . KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, aerosols, pmc, arctic, ozone, ukmo, no2, atmospheric pressure measurements, northern hemisphere, polar ozone and aerosol measurement ii, poam ii, potential vorticity, aerosol extinction, air quality, polar, amd, us, nitrogen compounds, o3, vorticity, earth science, oxygen compounds, polar mesospheric clouds, ozone depletion, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, ozone concentrations, systeme probatoire pour l'observation de la terre-3, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, spot-3, nitrogen oxides, ozone hole, ozone chemistry, southern hemisphere, amd, geographic region, 
TITLE: GRIP Ice Core Beryllium 10 Data, 386,000 years. ABSTRACT: GRIP Ice Core Beryllium 10 Data These data were measured at 2 different accelerators located in Zurich and Gif-sur-Yvette. In addition, as explained in Yiou et al., the samples were prepared using 2 different filters (0.45 and 40 microns). During the glacial period, approximately 20% of the total Be-10 was retained on the 0.45 micron filters. This means that, in order to combine the data, it is either necessary to also analyze the 0.45 filters, or make an estimate of their contribution when they are not measured. In addition to the results in Yiou et al., the table includes additional results published Wagner at al. 1997 and Baumgartner et al. 2001. Abstract from Yiou (1997): Concentrations of the cosmogenic isotope 10Be have been measured in more than 1350 samples from the Greenland Ice Core Project (GRIP) ice core drilled at Summit, Greenland. Although a dust-associated component of 10Be retained by 0.45 micron filters in some of the samples complicates the interpretations, the results confirm that the first-order origin of 10Be concentration variations is changes in precipitation rate associated with different climate regimes. This effect is seen not only between glacial and interglacial periods, but also during the shorter "Dansgaard-Oeschger" interstadials. By contrast, the 10Be data do not support the interpretation of rapidly varying accumulation (i.e. climate) during the last interglacial. They can, however, be used to help place limits on the origin of the ice in these events. After taking into account variable snow accumulation effects, variations in the 10Be flux are observed, probably caused by solar and geomagnetic modulation, but possibly also by primary cosmic ray variations. The most dramatic is a 10Be peak ~40,000 years ago, similar to that found in the Vostok Ice Core, thus permitting a very precise correlation between climate records from Arctic and Antarctic ice cores. The 36Cl 10Be ratio (considering either "total" or only ice-associated 10Be) shows significant variability over the whole core depth, thus confirming the difficulty in using this parameter for "dating" ice cores.. KEYWORD: continent, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, north atlantic ocean, greenland ice core project, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, cosmogenic isotope, greenland, pages, north america, isotopes, solar activity, quaternary, beryllium, ions, polar, paleo start date 386,000 ybp, grip, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, solar irradiance, paleo stop date 300 ybp, ocean, sun-earth interactions, ice core records, be-10, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Maiana Atoll Isotope (delta 18O, delta 13C) Data for 1840 to 1995. ABSTRACT: Maiana bimonthly oxygen isotopic composition, 1840-1995. Notes on the data: File includes columns for Year AD (bimonthly resolution = dec jan, feb mar) and coral d18O (a). The coral used in this study grew (and still does grow) at Maiana Atoll, Republic of Kiribati (1N, 173E). The colony lies at a depth of ~6m (low tide) and is about 4m in height. Annual growth rate is roughly 11mm yr. Methods: Sampling and isotopic analysis: Cores (8.5 cm diameter) drilled from living coral colonies were slabbed and X-rayed to identify annual density bands and optimal sampling transects. Samples were drilled along the growth axis continuously at 1mm resolution. Stable isotopic analysis (d18O and d13C) of powdered samples was performed on a Micromass Optima with Isocarb automated preparation system at the University of Colorado's Institute for Arctic and Alpine Research. Analytical precision is =+ -0.08 d18O and =+ -0.05 d13C. The Maiana record is continuous except for a gap from 1901-1905, which we bridged through straight forward comparison and splicing of data from a coral record from nearby Tarawa Atoll. Age model: Seasonally varying d13C values and ephemeral annual density bands provide the basis for annual age assignment. Ages were adjusted subseasonally by comparison to major El Nino and La Nina anomalies in a regional rainfall index (available at http:  tao.atmos.washington.edu datasets eqpacislandrainindex ); this procedure allows us to align major peaks and troughs that occur within the same calendar year with adjustments that are generally less than 3 months. Because corals grow at variable rates throughout the year, these small chronological adjustments are reasonable and customary (and do not affect estimates of multi-year variability). Near the base of the core, an age adjustment of 1 year was needed, suggesting an age uncertainty on the full record of 1 year. The Maiana coral grew at a rate of 7-12 mm per year; we interpolated records to a common time step of bimonthly resolution for further analysis. Replication: The record from core MAI95-2-3 is well replicated by additional records of 65-70 years from Maiana and Aranuka, ~75 km southeast of Maiana, (JEC, FEU, and JTO, manuscript in preparation) and by a published 97-year record from Tarawa Atoll, ~30 km north of Maiana. Correlation coefficients among coral and instrumental data over the common period 1950-89 are consistently high (Maiana_correlations.txt), adding confidence to single-core reconstruction of regional variability in western Kiribati. We focus on the MAI95-2-3 record for further analysis because it extends the record of ENSO into pre-instrumental periods and avoids nonstationarity that may be introduced through inclusion of records that differ in length. The 4-coral average correlates slightly better with instrumental data than most individual coral records, but only Mai 2-3 extends the instrumental record of ENSO. Linear correlation coefficients demonstrate a strong agreement between the Maiana record and ENSO variability (Table 1), and decadal averages of the Maiana record correlate significantly over the past century (>95% confidence) with those from the Tarawa coral record and regional rainfall indices, substantiating the reality of these more subtle low-frequency signals (JEC, FEU, and JTO, manuscript in preparation). On-line data are available free of charge, other forms are available for the cost of reproduction. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, kiribati, gilbert islands, past global changes, igbp, arctic, delta 180, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, delta 13c, earth science information partners program, pages, ocean, lake records, g3os, , polar, corals, density, maiana atoll, paleoclimatology, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, ocean, maiana (01n173e0001), south pacific ocean, coral deposits, gosic, central pacific ocean, esip, geographic region, numeric data sets, 
TITLE: Breeding Biology and Design of Population Monitoring Methods for Lapland Longspurs. ABSTRACT: Purpose: Data on variation in nesting density and clutch size will be used to understand how productivity varies among habitats and among years, especially in relation to the timing of spring. Data on reproductive success in various habitats prior to oil development will also serve as a baseline against which post-development estimates can be compared. Abstract: The Colville River Delta in northern Alaska supports large populations of breeding waterfowl, shorebirds, and loons. The Colville field station is one of the only programs devoted to monitoring long-term trends in tundra-breeding birds. Nesting density and reproductive success of all species occurring in fixed plots is monitored at this station. Species of current management interest include white-fronted geese, spectacled eiders, oldsquaw, and tundra swans. Shorebirds and loons are monitored as part of other USGS-Biological Resources Division studies.. KEYWORD: breeding biology, continent, biological classification, colville river delta, northern alaska, forest and rangeland ecosystem science center, ecological dynamics, arctic, common loons, birds, rivers, stream habitat, river delta, united states of america, lapland longspurs, brd, north america, alaska, perching birds, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, polar, earth science, ceos, ak, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, species, population interactions, loons, fresc, geographic region, populations, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Data of phosphine at Ny-Alesund (New Alesund, Svalbard) in 2008. ABSTRACT: From July to August in 2008, we collected samples of sea water, sediments, soil, air, and vegetation in Ny-Alesund (New Alesund, Svalbard) to investigate the environment here. This data is the phosphine (phosphorus trihydride PH3) concentration in air we get.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, arctic, earth science, field surveys, arctic, cn, geographic region, air quality, 
TITLE: Surficial Materials Sample Storage Inventory Database. ABSTRACT: The Surficial Materials Sample Storage Inventory Database contains all identification information pertaining to splits of original bulk geological samples of surficial materials collected in Canada.To maintain an accurate and complete record of all surficial samples collected in Canada. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, soil structure, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, surficial, saskatchewan, soils, vertical location, polar, soil texture, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, surficial material, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Snow Depth Yearly Measurements at Toolik Station 1995-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set provides snow depth measurements in the study area at Toolik Station, Alaska, taken once yearly on May 2nd, for the years 1995 through 2001. Measurements were taken by hand using a steel tile probe and are given in centimeters. The study area is designed in 1.5 meter by 1.5 meter plots, 3 meters apart. 10 measurements were taken within each plot. Data are in table format in text files and are available via FTP. This work was funded by the National Science Foundation as a part of the Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Program grants: OPP-9321626, OPP-9615845, and OPP-9907185.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, arctic, national snow and ice data center, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arcss, laii, itex, usa, nsf, united states of america, active layer thickness, snow cover, north america, alaska, probes, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, itex, snow, arcss910, arctic system science, laii, international tundra experiment, ice depth, thickness, geographic region, arcss, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, snow depth, 
TITLE: National Status and Trends Program Mussel Watch and Benthic Surveillance Programs Contaminants and Biological Response; NODC Archive Data. ABSTRACT: The National Status and Trends Program (NS&T) was initiated by NOAA to assess the contamination of estuarine and coastal waters of the United States by analyzing bivalves, fish livers and sediments through the Mussel Watch and Benthic Surveillance Programs. The goal of this program is to assess the distribution of contaminants, the biological response to contamination, and the temporal changes in the contaminants. Samples were collected and analyzed by NOAA National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), Battelle Ocean Sciences, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), and by the Texas A&M Research Foundation (Geochemical and Environmental Research Group). The contaminants analyzed were polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH's), total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's), total DDT's and total chlorinated pesticides (non-DDT) and the following metals: Ag, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni, Pb, Sb, Se, Si, Sn, Tl, Zn. The first NS&T data available from NODC are the Mussel Watch Data analyzed by Battelle Ocean Sciences. Mussels were collected along the West Coast and in the East Coast (north of Delaware Bay); and oysters were collected from selected sites along the Gulf Coast, East Coast (south of Delaware Bay) and two sites in Hawaii. The sediment and bivalve data include locations, dates, depth, temperature, salinity, total organic carbon (TOC), total inorganic carbon (TIC), total lipid content, trace metals, PCB's, PAH's and pesticides. In addition, the biovalve data contain species identification, mean shell length, gonadal index and organics; the sediment data include sediment grain size, wet weights, and dry weights. The Battelle data available from NODC are divided into three phases: Phase 1: 288 bivalve samples were collected at 96 locations from January 7, 1986 to May 13, 1986; 259 sediment samples were collected at 87 locations from January 15, 1986 to May 14, 1986. Phase 2: 297 bivalve samples were collected at 99 locations and 232 sediment samples were collected at 72 locations from November 11, 1986 to March 28, 1987. Phase 3: 321 bivalve samples were collected at 107 locations from November 20, 1987 to March 29, 1988.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, trace metals, heavy metals, mid-latitude, ecological dynamics, arctic, water temperature, mussel, ocean temperature, field surveys, usa, noaa, terrigenous sediments, toxic substances, north america, pah, estuaries, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, suspended solids, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, inorganic carbon, toxicity levels, ns&t, ocean chemistry, ecotoxicology, hydrocarbons, biosphere, ocean contaminants, animals, vertebrates, coast, inorganic matter, ships, water quality, ocean, gulf of mexico, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, contaminants, continent, toxic chemicals, animals, invertebrates, coastal u.s., north atlantic ocean, sea floor, toc, total inorganic carbon, pcb, trace elements, earth science information partners program, united states of america, bivalve, benthic, water quality, water chemistry, coastal habitat, marine sediments, organic carbon, total organic carbon, vertical location, polar, salinity, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, bivalves, coastal processes, ddt, fish, national status and trends program, esip, atlantic ocean, estuarine habitat, 
TITLE: Weekly Polar Sea-Ice Grid from the ERS-1 Scatterometer, available on CD-ROM from IFREMER. ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM contains weekly grids of sea ice backscatter data from the ERS-1 scatterometer for both polar regions. The data cover the time period 5 August 1991 through 26 May 1996. The grid used is the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) grid for SSM I data, in a polar stereographic projection, with 25 km cell size. [This information was obtained from IFREMER CERSAT Technical Report C2-MUT-W-03-IF, v2.0, March 1998.]. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, psi, arctic, radar backscatter, european remote sensing satellite-1, ers-1, sea ice, spectral, engineering, arctic, fr, scatterometers, polar, active microwave instrument, southern ocean, reflectance, earth science, cryosphere, polar sea ice grid, ceos, antarctica, radar, ers wind scatterometer, ocean, amd, fr, oceans, amd, geographic region, ami, 
TITLE: LANDSAT 4 5 Thematic Mapper System Corrected Pre-Flight Radiometric Correction and Nearest neighbour resampling product. ABSTRACT: Landsat TM data are available from December 1982 to February 1983 (Landsat 4) and from April 1984 onwards (Landsat 5). Most of the ESA archive has been acquired and processed at receiving stations in Fucino (Italy), Kiruna (Sweden) and Maspalomas (Gran Canaria, Spain). However, the archive contains also a substantial number of data acquired and processed by receiving stations elsewhere (e.g. the US, Brasil, Canada, etc). As well as being available in Raw Format, Landsat data is corrected for distorsions in the imagery to a number of levels: one is the Corrected Pre-Flight Radiometric Correction and Nearest neighbour resampling product. A Landsat 4 and 5 TM scene has an instantaneous field of view (IFOV) of 30 square meters in bands 1 through 5 and band 7, band 6 has an IFOV of 120 square meters on the ground. The resolution for the TM sensor is shown below: ------------------ Resolution Landsats 4-5: (meters) Band 1: 30 Band 2: 30 Band 3: 30 Band 4: 30 Band 5: 30 Band 6: 120 Band 7: 30 ------------------ Landsat TM SCPRNN data is available in a digital format for: - Full scene: Full scene cover approximately 183 x 172.8 km. A standard full scene is nominally centred on the intersection between a path and row (the actual image centre can vary by up to 20 km). For a floating full scene the placement along the path is chosen by the customer. The centre point of the floating full scene is defined by the path number and the required latitude. A full image is composed of 6920 pixels x 5760 lines and each band requires 40 Mbytes of storage space. - Quarter scene: ESA TM data (digital or photographic) is available in quadrants, each measuring 91.5 x 86 km. This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. Numbering of standard quarter scenes is as follows: for floating quarter scenes the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the floating quarter scene is defined by latitude and longitude. - Mini scenes: ESA TM data is available as images covering an area 47.2 x 44 km (a 16th of a full scene). This option is available for raw data, system corrected or geocoded products. The scenes are floating and the placement along-path and across-path is chosen by the customer. The centre of the scene is defined by latitude and longitude. To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, habitat conversion, fragmentation, global terrestrial observing system, desertification, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, biosphere, deforestation, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, erosion, gosic, geographic region, regional deforestation, regional desertification, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landsat-5, reforestation, landsat-4, vegetation, equatorial, wetlands, esa, esrin, thematic mapper, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, erosion, sedimentation, asia, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, regional reforestation, rivers, streams, tm, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Digital Ice Concentrations Grid Point Dataset for Canadian Navigable Waters. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes weekly ice concentration and ice age type data for the period 1959 to 1983. The parts of Canada covered include the Canadian Arctic, the East Coast, Hudson Bay and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The Arctic grid is irregularly spaced, while the east coast grid is 0.5 degree latitude by 1 degree longitude square. The Canadian Ice Service promotes safe and efficient maritime operations and protects Canada's environment by providing reliable and timely information about ice conditions in Canadian waters. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, sea ice concentration, arctic, north atlantic ocean, ice, none, nunavut, northwest territories, sea surface, northern hemisphere, ice types, north america, sea ice, gulf of st-laurence, sea ice age, vertical location, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: K. Geography Working Paper Series, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Geography Working Paper Series is intended to stimulate discussion on a variety of topics covering conceptual, methodological or technical work to support the development and dissemination of the Division's data, products and services. Readers of the series are encouraged to contact the Geography Division with comments and suggestions. The working papers are available for free on the Internet (http:  www.statcan.ca). A print version is also available for a nominal charge. Catalogue number for Internet is: 92F0138MIE Catalogue number for printed documents is: 92F0138MPE ....For additional information visit our organization web siteThe Geography Working Paper Series is intended to stimulate discussion on a variety of topics. Spatial Data Organization Information -. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, geography, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, geographical classification, research methods, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: Biological Investigations of Marine Antarctic Systems and Stocks (BIOMASS) Programme. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Biological Investigations of Marine Antarctic Systems and Stocks (BIOMASS) Programme was established in the late 1970's for the study of the Antarctic marine ecosystem and its living resources (Thorley, online resource). Data were collected during 3 major field experiments between 1981 and 1985, divided into two periods: First International BIOMASS Experiment (FIBEX) in 1980-1981, and the Second International BIOMASS Experiment (SIBEX) in 1983-1985. In total 34 cruises were carried out (El-Sayed, online resource), of which 21 cruises were gathered in this data set. This data set provides sea-bird observation collected in the cruises. PURPOSE: The main objective of BIOMASS was to gain a deeper understanding of the structure and dynamic functioning of the Antarctic marine ecosystem as a basis for the future management of potential living resources (El-Sayed, online resource), with the particular focus on krill. Specifically, FIBEX was aimed at carrying out a quasi-synoptic survey over a wide area the South Atlantic, Indian Ocean and Pacific sectors of the Southern Ocean. SIBEX was designed to produce a temporal sequence of observations focused on much smaller areas of the Bransfield Strait and Prydz Bay regions (Canadian Geospatial Data Infrastructure, online resource). Sea-birds data were collected as supporting data to krill. For further detail, you are referred to El-Sayed (1994). SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: When interested in a certain cruise, make a query for 'CRUISE' field. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL DATA ORGANIZATION INFORMATION Direct Spatial Reference: Vector SDTS Point and Vector Object Type: Entity point Point and Vector Object Count: 16727 SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224 NATIVE: Microsoft Windows 2000 Version 5.0 (Build 2195) Service Pack 4; ESRI ArcCatalog 8.3.0.800. KEYWORD: albatrosses, chordates, obis, seamap, biological classification, cory's shearwater, herons, alcids, falconiforms, arctic, cormorants, south polar skua, aves, eagles, bird, sea bird, parasitic jaeger, animals, waders, gulls, auks and allies, falcons, arctic tern, marine birds, gulls, antarctica, vertebrates, animals, vertebrates, murres, auks, ibises, petrels, ships, terns, ocean, biological investigations of marine antarctic systems and stocks, greater shearwater, guillemots, loons, penguins, storks, yellow-nosed albatross, amd, geographic region, continent, totipalmate swimmers, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, grebes, pelicans, storm petrels, obis-seamap, fulmars, shearwaters, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, sea-bird, wilson's storm-petrel, at-sea distributions, polar, hawks, biomass, oystercatchers, southern ocean, pelicans and allies, puffins, earth science, ceos, osprey, ship survey, shore birds, tube-nosed swimmers, flamingos, seabirds, ibises, spoonbills, amd, uk, herons, egrets and allies, krill, plovers, diurnal birds of prey, sooty shearwater, 
TITLE: British Columbia Marbled Murrelet Occupied Detection Surveys: Digital dataset. ABSTRACT: This data set contains the most complete known Marbled Murrelet occupancy detections at inland stations at georeferenced locations throughout British Columbia. Detection information includes total number of detections, total number of audio, visual, audio and visual, and total occupied detections. When more than one survey took place at a particular station, the survey information is summed for a total detection. Summation can occur within years, or across years. The number of surveys conducted, and the years the surveys took place will be noted when available. This database is a compilation of many sources and occupied detection is in some cases defined by the original scientists. Otherwise protocol is set by the Pacific Seabird Group (2000) as 1) Birds flying below canopy, through, into, or out of forest canopy, 2) Birds perching, landing, or attempting to land, or 3) Birds calling from a stationary position. A call is stationary when more than 3 calls are heard.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, seabird, coastal inland, brachyramphus marmoratus, vancouver island, puffins, arctic, earth science, british columbia, ceos, occupied detection, birds, queen charlotte island, animals, vertebrates, canada, terns, north america, marbled murrelet, geographic region, waders, gulls, auks and allies, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Fungi isolates from physical samples (soil, rock, wood, foodstuff, air, artifacts, etc) from heroic era sites in the Ross Sea Region to determine fungal biodiversity. ABSTRACT: Physical samples of soil, rocks, wood, foodstuffs, air and artefacts were collected from six Heroic era sites in the Ross Sea Region over the period of January 1999 to January 2008. These sites included the three historic huts at Hut Point, Cape Evans and Cape Royds on Ross Island (from 1998-2008), the historic hut at Cape Adare (2002-2003), the rock hut at Cape Crozier (2000-2001) and the Granite house at Cape Geology, Granite Harbour (2002-2003). Fungi were isolated from these samples using a variety of techniques (including spore traps), media and temperatures. The results from these studies were used to determine fungal biodiversity, the effect of the introduction of a nutrient source in a pristine environment on native fungal species, the impact of humans, and introduction of foreign fungi into a harsh environment. The fungi isolated from these locations have been studied to determine adaption survival strategies. All cultures are held in culture collections at The Universities of Waikato and Minnesota. Huts and artefacts were digitally videotaped to compare the rate of deterioration from year to year. January 1990 samples: Hut Point >100 samples, Cape Evans >200 samples, Cape Royds >200 samples; December 1999 samples Hut Point >50 samples, Cape Evans >130 samples, Cape Royds >90 samples. KEYWORD: contaminants, continent, biological classification, evolutionary adaptation, bacteria, ecological dynamics, cape evans, microbial biology, field surveys, cape adare, cape geology, indigenous, native species, bacteria, archaea, human exploration, lgp, human dimensions, soils, heroic period, cape royds, polar, biodiversity, latitudinal gradient project, eba, cape crozier, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, biosphere, antarctica, field investigation, ecosystem functions, conservation, historic huts, fungi, hut point, infrastructure, species, population interactions, buildings, amd, nz, amd, geographic region, microflora, ezymatic decay, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Greenland Summit Ice Cores. ABSTRACT: From 1989 to 1994, the U.S. and European scientific communities supported a bold undertaking to acquire an extensive paleoclimate record for the Northern Hemisphere. These efforts, termed the Greenland Ice Core Project (GRIP) and Greenland Ice Sheet Project Two (GISP2), acquired deep ice cores from sites on and near the Greenland summit. The GISP2 (US) site was located at 72 degrees 36 minutes N, 38 degrees 30 minutes W. The GRIP (European) site was located at 72 degrees 35 minutes N, 37 degrees 38 minutes W. A wide range of environmental and physical parameters were recorded from the cores. The data types are listed below: - Air Mass Trajectories (GISP2) - Chemistry (GISP2, GRIP) - Climatological Data (GISP2) - Cosmogenic Isotopes (GISP2) - Dust (GISP2) - Electrical Conductivity (GISP2, GRIP) - Gas Concentrations in Air Bubbles (GISP2, GRIP) - Physical Properties and Ice Core Stratigraphy (GISP2, GRIP) - Stable Isotopes (GISP2, GRIP) - Time scales (GISP2, GRIP) The GRIP and GISP2 data presented on this CD-ROM were acquired as a part of a multi-institutional effort involving the GISP2 Science Management Office (SMO) at the University of New Hampshire, the Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Data Coordination Center (ADCC) at the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC), the International Ice Core Data Cooperative (IICDC) at the Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research (INSTAAR), and the World Data Center (WDC) for Paleoclimatology, Boulder at the NOAA National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). Documentation, CD-ROM format and structure, artwork, and data format were carried out jointly by NSIDC and the WDC for Paleoclimatology. All GISP2 and GRIP data are jointly archived at the ADCC at NSIDC and at the WDC for Paleoclimatology, NOAA-NCDC. Error notice: Two errors have come to our attention in the GISP2 core data, found on the Greenland Summit Ice Core CD-ROM, originally released in 1998. The corrected files may be found at "ftp:  adcc.colorado.edu pub projects arcss008 ". The dust file, m1650.dat, was missing altogether from the product; the other corrected file is electrical conductivity measurement (ecm) data, d1000.dat. The original d1000.dat file had the same data as the d1100.dat (data for 1100-1149). If you have a copy of this product, please download the corrected files for your use. We apologize for any inconvenience. Contact NSIDC User Services if you have questions.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, ice core air bubbles, cosmogenic isotopes, atmospheric temperature, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, gisp2, north america, isotopes, humidity, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, ground-based observations, meteorological stations, stable isotopes, electrical properties, office of polar programs, national science foundation, atmospheric water vapor, glaciers, ice sheets, aws climate data, atmospheric winds, glaciation, water vapor, methane, radiocarbon, geographic region, weather records, dust, ash, smoke, nsf, opp, arcss, continent, arcss, gisp2, aerosols, nitrous oxide, volcanic deposits, co2, greenland ice core project, air temperature, paleoclimate, greenland, particulate matter, usa, nsf, ice augers, greenland ice sheet project ii, water quality, water chemistry, ions, surface winds, polar, carbon dioxide, grip, ice cores, oxygen-18, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, coring devices, ch4, atmospheric pressure, ice core stratigraphy, paleoenvironment, ice sheets, ice core records, electrical conductivity, 
TITLE: Net accumulation data from Lomonosovfonna, Svalbard and Milcent from Arctic ice cores, Climate Since A.D. 1500 Database, WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: Data from Tarussov. Net accumulation data from Lomonosovfonna, Svalbard and Milcent, Greenland (shown in Figure 26.4). Annual Melt percentage (AMP) data for Austfonna, Svalbard (shown in Figures 26.6 and 26.7). Figures from Bradley and Jones (1992).. KEYWORD: glaciers, galciation, past global changes, igbp, amp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, north atlantic ocean, annual melt percentage, novaya zemlya, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, svalbard, pages, isotopes, quaternary, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, igbp, ground-based observations, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, ice cores, paleo stop date 0 ybp, climate reconstructions, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, glaciers, ice sheets, franz-josef land, ocean, paleo start date 2500 ybp, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, severnaya zemlya, 
TITLE: European Diatom Database-Finnish Dataset. ABSTRACT: The European Diatom Database (EDDI) is a web-based information system designed to enhance the application of diatom analysis to problems of surface water acidification, eutrophication and climate change. The Finish Lapland training set comprises 151 samples from lakes in the pH range 5.0-8.3. A sub-set of 30 of these lakes has been published as a training set (Weckstr?m et al. 1997). These lakes are distributed across the treeline, spanning boreal forest to tundra along a steep climatic gradient. The extended training set was produced with the intention of creating a transfer function for temperature. Surface sediment samples (0-1cm) were collected using a gravity corer during summer 1994 and 1995. Samples for analysis of water chemistry were collected during July 1995. Approximately 500 diatom valves per sample were counted. Only those species present at greater than 1% in any single sample and with >3 occurrences and that are identified to species level or better were included in the model (118 taxa).. KEYWORD: trace metals, biological classification, lakewater chemical data, arctic, secchi depth, the european diatom database, conductivity, protists, microalgae, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, bacillariophyta, climate change, surface sediment samples, nitrogen compounds, eutrophication, magnesium, northern europe, biosphere, alkalinity, surface water, sodium, lakewater ph transfer function, plant, geographic region, sediments, plantae, continent, potassium, surface-sediment diatom assemblages, ammonium, scandinavia, plants, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, europe, total organic carbon, finland, polar, calcium, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, surface water acidification, land surface, usa, nasa, chromista, water depth of diatom sample, diatoms, maximum depth of lake, sediment chemistry, ph, iron, 
TITLE: Polar Continental Shelf Project Weather Observation Database. ABSTRACT: This data set stems from a need to provide on-site weather reconnaissance to aircraft operating in support of arctic field research camps (spring and summer). These camps were operated by the Polar Continental Shelf Project (PCSP), a Canadian federal government organization that provides logistical support for arctic research. These data were digitized and stored in an ad hoc fashion over the years. An effort was made to record and store the recorded data, resulting in the database presented here. The database consists of approximately 53,000 observations, taken twice daily, from 600 unique sites throughout the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. Individual time series can include various climatic parameters and vary in length from a few observations taken on one day to hundreds of observations made over a period of four months. Prevalent climatic elements include dry-bulb temperature, wind direction and speed, and total cloud cover. 95% of all time series include screen-height dry-bulb temperature. To rescue and make available valuable polar climate data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, arctic, water temperature, air temperature, clouds, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, ocean, lake records, water quality, water chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, land records, surface winds, polar, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, land surface, quebec, geologic time, atmospheric winds, dry bulb temperature, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, snow, land temperature, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Ozone in Southern Polar regions. ABSTRACT: To study the evolutions of total ozone content in southern polar regions, some groundbased measurements were carried out in 2 sites. 1 - Ushuaia (Tierra del Fuego, Argentina) 2 - Belgrano II (Antarctica). KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, polar, (pacs) antarctica, (pacs) global change, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, ushuaia, (pacs) polar regions, (pacs) solar radiation, antarctica, ozone, atmospheric chemistry, amd, it, amd, belgrano ii, geographic region, 
TITLE: IPY Traverse. ABSTRACT: Joint Norwegian - U.S. scientific ground traverse in East Antarctica. The field expedition involves scientific investigations along two overland traverses: one going from the Troll Station in Dronning Maud Land to Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station in 2007-2008; and a return traverse by a different route in 2008-2009. Data are collected for investigations of climate change, with the following goals: 1. Investigate climate variability in Dronning Maud Land of East Antarctica on time scales of years to a million years. 2. Establish spatial and temporal variability in snow accumulation over this area of Antarctica to understand its impact on sea level. 3. Investigate the impact of atmospheric and oceanic variability on the chemical composition of firn and ice in the region. 4. Revisit areas and sites first explored by traverses in the 1960s, for detection of possible changes and to establish benchmark data sets for future research efforts.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dronning maud land, amd, no, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, arctic, no, no-us-traverse, trans-antarctic scientific traverses expeditions & ice divide of east antarctica, ice sheets, ipy, taste-idea, amd, geographic region, norwegian-u.s. scientific traverse of east antarctica, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Seasonal Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Historic CH4 Records from Antarctic and Greenland Ice Cores, Antarctic Firn Data, and Archived Air Samples from Cape Grim, Tasmania in CDIAC Trends Online. ABSTRACT: This data represents one thousand years of atmospheric methane concentrations. Methane concentrations was measured in air bubbles from 1008-1980 in Antarctic ice cores, and from 1075-1885 in Greenland ice cores. Air in firn samples from 1978 to 1993 are also included as well as archived air samples from Cape Grim, Tasmania for the years 1978-1995. For more information on methodology and access to data, see: http:  cdiac.ornl.gov trends atm_meth lawdome_meth.html and ftp:  ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov pub data paleo icecore antarctica law law_ch4.txt Data from WDC Paleoclimatology consists of ice core methane concentration measurements from the Law Dome DE08, DE08-2, and DSS ice cores, plus Greenland Summit (EUROCORE) ice core, are listed. These data are combined with measurements of firn air from DE08-2 and archived air samples from Cape Grim, Tasmania, to calculate global annual mean methane concentrations from 1010 AD to 1992 AD, also listed. The methane ice core records presented here are derived from three cores obtained from Law Dome, East Antarctica from 1987 to 1993, and samples from the Eurocore and GISP2 ice cores from the Summit region, Greenland. The Law Dome sites satisfy many of the desirable characteristics of an ideal ice core site for atmospheric reconstructions including negligible melting of the ice sheet surface, low concentrations of impurities, regular stratigraphic layering undisturbed at the surface by wind or at depth by ice flow, and high snow accumulation rate. Further details on the Law Dome sites, drilling, cores, ice dating and air dating are provided in Etheridge et al. (1996), Etheridge and Wookey (1989), Morgan et al. (1997), Levchenko et al. (1996) and Trudinger et al. (1997). The air enclosed in the three ice cores from Law Dome, Antarctica has unparalleled age resolution and extends into recent decades, because of the high rate of snow accumulation at the Law Dome drill sites (Etheridge et al. 1996). These data supersede those published earlier from the Law Dome ice core DE08 (Etheridge et al., Tellus, 1992) offering greater precision, elimination of a small and variable contamination, and more accurate dating. The methane concentrations were measured by gas chromatography and are given in the CSIRO94 CH4 scale, which is indistinguishable from the NOAA CMDL scale. Precision of each ice core methane measurement is about 5 ppb (1 sigma). The firn air samples were pumped from the firn layer at the DE08-2 drill site. Their effective ages range from 1993 AD for the surface to 1978 AD at a depth of 85 m. The firn air was dated by firn diffusion modelling (Trudinger et al., JGR, 1997). The archived air samples were collected several times per year during "baseline" wind conditions at the Cape Grim station since 1978 AD (Langenfelds et al., 1996).. KEYWORD: continent, de08-02, past global changes, igbp, paleo start date 1000 ybp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, usa, noaa, summit, paleoclimate, gisp2, firn, greenland, pages, north america, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, terrestrial hydrosphere, law dome, ground-based observations, polar, amd, us, paleo stop date 0 ybp, tasmania, australia, new zealand, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, australia, usa, nasa, antarctica, ch4, glaciers, ice sheets, cape grim, methane, amd, ice core records, geographic region, firn air samples, 
TITLE: BIGFOOT GPP SURFACES FOR NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICAN SITES, 2000-2004. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BigFoot project gathered Gross Primary Production (GPP) data for nine EOS Land Validation Sites located from Alaska to Brazil from 2000 to 2004. Each site is representative of one or two distinct biomes, including the Arctic tundra; boreal evergreen needleleaf forest; temperate cropland, grassland, evergreen needleleaf forest, and deciduous broadleaf forest; desert grassland and shrubland; and tropical evergreen broadleaf forest. At this time we are archiving Northern Old Black Spruce (NOBS - BOREAS NSA, Canada) and Harvard Forest LTER (HARV - Massachusetts, USA) data collected in 2001.The GPP surfaces were produced by a spatial version of an ecosystem process model named, Biome-BGC. Inputs to the model included Landsat ETM+ derived Land Cover and LAI, tower derived meteorological variables, and a set of site level ecophysical parameters. The model was calibrated using field measured NPP and validated by tower derived estimates of GPP. For an in depth discussion of methods used to produce these surfaces, please see Turner et al. (2003).Each BigFoot GPP product covers a 7 x 7 km extent and consists of the GPP surface in BIP format (280 rows by 280 columns by 365 bands at 25 meter resolution) and an accompanying text file which provides metadata specific to the image (such as projection, data type, etc). Additional information on GPP surface development can be found on the BigFoot website at http:  www.fsl.orst.edu larse bigfoot ovr_mthd.html Project Background: Reflectance data from MODIS, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer onboard NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite Terra (http:  landval.gsfc.nasa.gov MODIS index.php), is used to produce several science products including land cover, leaf area index (LAI), gross primary production (GPP) and net primary production (NPP). The overall goal of the BigFoot Project was to provide validation of these products. To do this, BigFoot combined ground measurements, additional high resolution remote sensing data, and ecosystem process models at nine flux tower sites representing different biomes to evaluate the effects of the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem characteristics on MODIS products. BigFoot characterized up to a 7 x 7 km area (49 MODIS pixels) surrounding the CO2 flux towers located at each of the nine sites. We collected multi-year, in situ measurements of ecosystem structure and functional characteristics related to the terrestrial carbon cycle. Our sampling design allowed us to examine scales and spatial pattern of these properties, the inter-annual variability and validity of MODIS products, and provided for a field-based ecological characterization of the flux tower footprint. BigFoot was funded by NASA's Terrestrial Ecology Program.For more details on the BigFoot Project, please visit the website: http:  www.fsl.orst.edu larse bigfoot index.html.. KEYWORD: konz, alaksa, manitoba, ecological dynamics, echo, balance, temperate mixed forest, north america, massachusetts, metolius, south america, cropland, validation, modis, barrow, metl, gpp, tapa, tallgrass prairie, harvard forest lter, biosphere, kansas, sevi, ecosystem functions, temperate needleleaf forest, primary production, canada, earth observing system data information system, tapajos, continent, tund, brazil, bigfoot, illinois, vegetation, sevilleta lter, harv, agro, otter, eosdis, desert grassland, earth science information partners program, park falls, konza prairie, wisconsin, nobs, boreal forest, earth science, usa, nasa, field investigation, arctic tundra, bondville, esip, new mexico, oregon cascades, boreas, cheq, tropical broadleaf evergreen forest, 
TITLE: Meteorological and Hydrographic Data, Kuparuk River Watershed. ABSTRACT: The data files in this data set contain climate and hydrographic information from sites on the North Slope of Alaska from 1985 to 2001. The variables collected were temperature, humidity, wind speed and direction, soil heat flux and temperature, snow temperature, precipitation, snow pack water equivalent, and Imnavait Creek discharge rates (meters cubed per second).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, soil heat flux, arctic, field surveys, usa, noaa, arctic system science, ground water discharge, flow, precipitation, snow temperature, north america, alaska, humidity, thermometers, soil temperature, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, meteorological stations, wind speed, wind direction, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, discharge, flow, water vapor, snow pack water equivalent, geographic region, arcss, nsf, opp, continent, soil heat budget, river discharge rates, arcss, laii, ground water, air temperature, usa, nsf, united states of america, temperature, soils, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, land surface, snow, ice temperature, soil heat temperature, imnavait creek, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Bottom Sediment Granulometric Data for the Continental Margins of the Bering, Chukchi, E Siberian, Laptev, and Beaufort Seas. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: These data are part of Roberts, Richard W., University of Washington, Department of Oceanography Special Report No. 70, Bottom Sediment Granulometric Data for the Continental Margins of the Bering, Chukchi, East Siberian, Laptev, and Beaufort Seas. The report was funded by Grant OCE76-20834, from the National Science Foundation, with additional support from the Office of Naval Research, the US Atomic Energy Commission, and the US Geological Survey. Data in the report represent granulometric analyses conducted by UW of over 4,300 sediment samples from approximately 1,500 stations collected during cruises of the Brown Bear, Thomas G. Thompson, Northwind, Staten Island, Burton Island, Surveyor, John N. Cobb, and Drifting Ice Station Alpha II. The full report accompanying the tabular data is available in .pdf form online (27.4 Mbytes).Data include collecting institution, ship, cruise, sample id, latitude longitude, date of collection, water depth, sampling device, method of analysis, sample weight, sampled interval, raw weight percentages of sediment, within a given phi range. Some samples also have percentages of total gravel, sand, silt, clay, and statistical measurements such as mean, median, skewness, kurtosis, and standard deviation of grain size. These data are part of the larger NGDC digital grain size database. PURPOSE: Marine Geology Research CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Publication Date NATIVE: ASCII text. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, bering sea, polar, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, wdc, mgg, boulder, pacific ocean, arctic, earth science, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, ceos, world data center for marine geology and geophysics, boulder, usa, noaa, beaufort sea, sedimentation, earth science information partners program, ocean, geotechnical properties, oceans, esip, geographic region, chukchi sea, marine sediments, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 18th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 18th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, noaa poes, ceos, visible radiance, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Lack of Reproduction in Muskoxen and Arctic Hares Caused by Early Winter. ABSTRACT: A lack of young muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus) and arctic hares (Lepus arcticus) in the Eureka area of Ellesmere Island, Northwest Territories (now Nunavut), Canada, was observed during summer 1998, in contrast to most other years since 1986. Evidence of malnourished muskoxen was also found. Early winter weather and a consequent 50% reduction of the 1997 summer replenishment period appeared to be the most likely cause, giving rise to a new hypothesis about conditions that might cause adverse demographic effects in arctic herbivores. The study area included a 150 km2 region of the Fosheim Peninsula in a 180o arc north of Eureka, Ellesmere Island, Nunavut, Canada (all within about 9 km of 80oN, 86oW). The area, extending from Eureka Sound to Remus Creek and from Slidre Fiord to Eastwind Lake, included shoreline, hills, lowlands, creek bottoms, and the west side of Blacktop Ridge. An associate, Layne Adams, and I spent 1-11 July 1998 in this area on all-terrain vehicles, following a pair of wolves Canis lupus (Mech, 1994). Adams and I also surveyed the surrounding area with binoculars for prey animals, in much the same manner that my assistants and I have practiced for one to six weeks each summer in the same area since 1986 (Mech, 1995, 1997). Because both muskoxen and arctic hares were common residents of the area during most years and were not the focus of our studies, no standardized counts were made. However, general field notes were sufficient to document that during most summers both species and their young were present.. KEYWORD: continent, ellesmere island, eureka, ecological dynamics, survival rates, canis lupus, arctic, nunavut, lepus arcticus, muskox, north america, weather, polar, winter severity, wolf, earth science, usa, nasa, biosphere, population dynamics, population, malnutrition, canada, snow, ovibos moschatus, species, population interactions, geographic region, muskoxen, arctic hare, reproduction, 
TITLE: Permafrost Map of Canada. ABSTRACT: This map depicts the distribution, characteristics, and boundaries of permafrost and ground ice in Canada. Permafrost classification is based on the proportion of land that is underlain by permafrost within a a given area. Canada was divided into physiographic units, and each unit was classified in terms of permafrost extent and ground ice content. The map shows mountain permafrost as sporadic or isolated discontinuous permafrost, rather than as a separate category. This map can be found in the The National Atlas of Canada, 5th Edition (1978-95) published by Natural Resources Canada. The map and descriptive information was taken from the National Atlas of Canada website http:  atlas.gc.ca. 2002. Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada with permission of Natural Resources Canada.. KEYWORD: global geocryological data system, continent, polar, permafrost temperature, ggd, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, permafrost regions, permafrost depth, permafrost, canada, ground ice, north america, frozen ground, soil temperature, permafrost classifications, geographic region, snow, ice, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Borehole Temperatures from the North Slope of Alaska, 1977-2003. ABSTRACT: This data set contains temperatures collected from boreholes on the North Slope of Alaska at 23 sites between 1977 and 2003. Most data fall into a date range of 1983-2003. The data consist of manually measured temperature profiles. PLEASE NOTE: These data and documentation files are presented as received from the Principal Investigator (PI) and have not undergone the normal ADCC quality control procedures. This data set will not receive routine NSIDC User Services support until ADCC staff have completely prepared the data for publication. Until this disclaimer has been removed, users should send questions and comments about this data set to nsidc@nsidc.org. NSIDC will forward these inquiries to the PI for resolution.. KEYWORD: nsf, nsidc, continent, opp9531220, active layer, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, arctic system science, arcss034, boreholes, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, borehole temperatures, soil temperature, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, land records, ground-based observations, polar, temperature profilers, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, opp-9531220, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPRA) - Vegetation Map, USGS. ABSTRACT: A vegetation land cover raster digital data set for the entire National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPR-A) was generated from Landsat multispectral data sets. Included are eleven categories of vegetation and land cover which are derived from all or portions of 10 Landsat MSS scenes. The data set covers all or part of thirteen 1:250,000-scale topographic quadrangles. Data are stored in 50 meter pixels and registered to a UTM base. A full NPR-A mosaic as well as the 1:250,000 topographic series. Data are available in two forms: a digital mosaic of (1) the entire NPR-A coverage, split into two pieces each and registered to a separate UTM zone, or (2) for each 1:250,000-scale topo quadrangle area within the NPR-A. This file is too large to remain online. It is stored on magnetic tape at Moffett Field, CA.. KEYWORD: solid earth, terrain elevation, alpine, tundra, ecological dynamics, arctic, aedd, mss, field geology, north america, alaska, prudhoe bay, north slope, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, petroleum, land cover, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, landforms, alaska directory, coast, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, npra, natural resources, landcover, vegetation, geology, oil, united states of america, land, satellite, coastal habitat, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, environment, wildlife distribution, species, population interactions, mpr-a, endangered species, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Model Output Assessing Net Carbon Exchange Across the Arctic Tundra-Boreal Forest Transition in Alaska, 1981-2000. ABSTRACT: In this study, investigators simulated the temporal and spatial patterns of net carbon exchange in Alaskan ecosystems that span the transition from Arctic tundra to boreal forest. They modeled net carbon storage in terrestrial ecosystems by the balance between net primary production (NPP) and decomposition. They also modeled vegetation and soil carbon and nitrogen pools in tundra, shrub tundra, and tree line evergreen conifer forest ecosystems. Field data were used to develop parameterizations for the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) 5.0. Investigators extrapolated the model spatially over the Alaskan Arctic to boreal tree line to simulate changes in vegetation and soil carbon storage from 1981-2000 (Thompson et al. 2005). Data are in Microsoft Excel Comma Separated Values format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: continent, terrestrial ecosystem model (tem), modeling, heterotrophic respiration, respiration rate, ecological dynamics, arctic, usa, noaa, alaskan north slope, nitrogen flux, carbon flux, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, nep, ground-based observations, polar, models, boreal forest, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss162, terrestrial ecosystems, carbon cycle, biosphere, net ecosystem productivity, nutrient cycling, opp-9732126, net primary production, npp, ecosystem functions, primary production, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Soil Survey along the Dempster Highway, Yukon Territory, Canada. ABSTRACT: Soil survey information from plots along the Dempster Highway in Yukon Territory, Canada, includes soil consistency, soil texture, soil moisture, pedon information, flooding information (frequency and duration), erosion, runoff, soil temperature, precipitation, bedrock, major land resource areas, horizon data (thickness, soil pores, rock fragments, roots, soil surface feature, effervescence), mineralogy, and oxalate data elements collected in the field and the lab. An attached SAS program is included with each data file for importing data to SAS statistical software.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, floods, arctic, usa, noaa, arcss056, precipitation, dithionite-citrate extractable al, carbon, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, acid oxalate extractable fe, cacl2 ph, soil horizons, profile, runoff, sodium pyrophosphate extractable carbon, land use, land cover, conservation, organic matter, rocks, minerals, phosphorus retention, nsf, opp, water ph, nsf, continent, oxalate data elements, total nitrogen, usa, nsf, kcl extractable al, extractable mg, bedrock, effervescence, extractable k, inuvik, soils, acid oxalate extractable al, yukon territory, polar, erosion, sedimentation, runoff data, base saturation - sum, clay fraction analysis, horizon soil pores, extractable ca, sand mineralogy, national science foundation, horizon roots, pedon, sodium pyrophosphate extractable aluminum, soil pores, solid earth, nsidc, precipitation amount, soil moisture, water content, thickness, mineralogy, acid oxalate extractable si, dithionite-citrate extractable fe, coefficient of linear extensibility (cole), north america, soil bulk density, water retention, water retention difference, al saturation, soil water holding capacity, arctic system science data coordination center, soil water retention, office of polar programs, national science foundation, flooding, roots, pedon information, surface water, extractable na, canada, erosion, geographic region, kcl ph, bases + al, minerals, crystals, cation exchange capacity, soil consistency, cole, soil consistence, soil surface feature, horizon effervescence, total analysis, visual observations, organic carbon, sum of bases, soil texture, extractable acidity, x-ray, horizon thickness, soil moisture, nitrogen, sodium pyrophosphate extractable iron, soil plasticity, earth science, wrd, ceos, total carbon, land surface, horizon data, horizon rock fragments, land resources, dithionite-citrate extractable mn, rock fragments, adcc, bedrock lithology, koh-al, horizon soil surface feature, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: AMPR FIRE III ACE. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Precipitation Radiometer (AMPR) was deployed during The First ISCCP Regional Experiment-III Arctic Cloud Experiment (FIRE-III ACE). AMPR data were collected at four microwave frequencies (10.7, 19.35, 37.1 and 85.5 GHz) for the period of 10 May 1999 through 08 June 1999. The FIRE-III ACE mission is to study sea-ice melting, sea-ice drift, and other sea-ice properties. The experiment was focused on the Arctic Ocean in and near the Beaufort Sea off the northern coast of Alaska, in coordination with the ice-bound research ship Sheba.. KEYWORD: microwaves, arctic ocean, ampr, aircraft, earth science, echo, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, eosdis, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, brightness temperature, earth science information partners program, advanced microwave precipitation radiometer, earth observing system data information system, ocean, first isccp regional experiment, spectral, engineering, fire, esip, microwave, fire, ace, 
TITLE: High-Resolution Radar Imagery, Digital Elevation Models, and Related GIS Layers for Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This product set contains high-resolution Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (IFSAR) imagery and geospatial data for the Barrow Peninsula (155.39 - 157.48 deg W, 70.86 - 71.47 deg N) and Barrow Triangle (156.13 - 157.08 deg W, 71.14 - 71.42 deg N), for use in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing software. The primary IFSAR data sets were acquired by Intermap Technologies from 27 to 29 July 2002, and consist of Orthorectified Radar Imagery (ORRI), a Digital Surface Model (DSM), and a Digital Terrain Model (DTM). Derived data layers include aspect, shaded relief, and slope-angle grids (floating-point binary and ArcInfo grid format), as well as a vector layer of contour lines (ESRI Shapefile format). Also available are accessory layers compiled from other sources: 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS Digital Raster Graphic (DRG) mosaic images (GeoTIFF format); 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS quadrangle index maps (ESRI Shapefile format); a quarter-quadrangle index map for the 26 IFSAR tiles (ESRI Shapefile format); and a simple polygon layer of the extent of the Barrow Peninsula (ESRI Shapefile format). Unmodified IFSAR data comprise 26 data tiles across UTM zones 4 and 5. The DSM and DTM tiles (5 m resolution) are provided in floating-point binary format with header and projection files. The ORRI tiles (1.25 m resolution) are available in GeoTIFF format. FGDC-compliant metadata for all data sets are provided in text, HTML, and XML formats, along with the Intermap License Agreement and product handbook. The baseline geospatial data support education, outreach, and multi-disciplinary research of environmental change in Barrow, which is an area of focused scientific interest. <B>Data are provided on five DVDs, available through licensing only to National Science Foundation (NSF)-funded investigators. An NSF award number must be provided when ordering data.< B>. KEYWORD: nsidc, terrain elevation, sar imagery, digital elevation model, arctic, usa, noaa, topographic effects, opp0224071, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, barrow, surface elevation, mapping, maps, topography, office of polar programs, national science foundation, cartography, slope, radar imagery, radio detection and ranging, orthorectified radar imagery, synthetic aperture radar, topographical relief, digital surface model, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, continent, radar reflectivity, national snow and ice data center, gis, ifsar, usa, nsf, united states of america, aspect, relief, polar, digital mapping, digital terrain model, sar, aircraft, earth science, ceos, land surface, contours, orri, radar, topographic maps, 
TITLE: North Pole Environmental Observatory Aerial CTD Survey. ABSTRACT: This data set includes conductivity, temperature, depth (CTD), pressure, salinity, potential temperature, and density data, which were collected yearly, 2000 to 2006, in the Arctic Ocean as part of the North Pole Environmental Observatory. Investigators landed a helicopter or skiplane on the arctic sea ice and took measurements using a Seabird SBE-19 Seacat with a portable winch.They processed the data using the SEASOFT recipe to minimize salinity spiking and correct for a thermal lag of the conductivity cell. Certain constants were determined by empirical trial, which differed slightly for each year. The North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) is a year-round, automated scientific observatory, d\ eploying various instruments each April in order to learn how the world's northernmost sea helps regulate global climate. It consists of a set of unmanned scientific platforms that record oceanographic, cryospheric, and atmospheric data throughout the year. More information about the project is available at the project Web site, North Pole Environmental Observatory (http:  psc.apl.washington.edu northpole ). Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: dissolved oxygen, arctic ocean, nsidc, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, opp-9910305, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, arctic system science data coordination center, canadian forces station alert, office of polar programs, national science foundation, gps, seasoft, north pole, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, canada, ocean, north pole environmental observatory, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, dehavilland twin otter, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, nunavut, usa, nsf, helicopter, opp9910305, polar, salinity, gps data, density, earth science, ceos, potential temperature, global positioning system, arcss088, seabird sbe-19 seacat, dhc-6, arcss, npeo, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid (MYD10A1) contains snow cover and quality assurance (QA) data in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. Data files after 14 September 2003 include a snow albedo array with a 'beta' status. MYD10A1 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. MODIS Aqua V004 data extend from 04 July 2002 to present. A sample of MODIS Aqua V003 data from 29 August 2002 (day 241) through 07 October 2002 (day 280) allows users to correlate between V003 and later versions. This collection also includes several granules that were not reprocessed into V004. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, albedo, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Landsat 5 TM Mosaic of North America. ABSTRACT: This is a Landsat 5 TM mosaic of North America. The mosaic resolution has been degraded from 30 metre pixels to 135 metre pixels. This data is freely available on-line, via the Spatial Image Web Server, and can be viewed using a standard Internet browser. This image can also be used directly in GIS CAD Office applications, with the use of free plug-ins available from www.ermapper.com (downloads section). A full resolution Landsat 5 TM mosaic of North Amercia is available by contacting Spatial Mapping Ltd.To make large raster datasets instantly accessible to end users on their desktop applications, without requiring them to download, convert or enhance the data prior to its use. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: WGS84 Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: surface radiative properties, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, caribbean, northern hemisphere, jamaica, north america, ontario, great slave lake, spectral, engineering, caribbean sea, north pacific ocean, cuba, infrared wavelengths, nova scotia, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, orbital characteristics, gulf of mexico, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, western hemisphere, landsat 5 tm, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, gulf of alaska, nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, saskatchewan, platform characteristics, reflected infrared, yukon territory, bidirectional reflectance, polar, reflectance, pacific ocean, great lakes, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, mexico, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Larsbreen rock glacier. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 11.5m deep borehole was drilled in the Larsbreen rock glacier. Stratigraphy: 0-1m: The active layer is coarse and openwork. 1-8m: very ice-rich. Layered. 8-11.5m: less ice. Layered.. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, larsbreen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Yearly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: NADW Suborbital Timescale Variability. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of tables of stable isotope and 14C dates on benthic and planktonic foraminifer assemblages from core V29-202 (subpolar North Atlantic, ~50N, ~23W), used as proxy records to reconstruct NADW variability.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, foraminifers, biological classification, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, north atlantic ocean, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, d14c, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, protists, north atlantic deep water, amoeboids, polar, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, earth science, ceos, d18o, phanerozoic, paleo start date 220 ka, ocean, nadw, oceans, paleo stop date 0 ka, atlantic ocean, geographic region, carbon isotopes, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Canada Lands Cadastral Data. ABSTRACT: This data provides the cadastral framework for specified Canada Lands. The cadastral framework is compiled from Canada Lands Survey Records (CLSR), Registration Plans and Location Sketches (LS) archived in the Canada Lands Survey Records.This data is used to depict the cadastral framework for the specified Canada Lands. This cadastral framework provides a parcel base of properly structured vector data designed and suited for Geographical Information System (GIS) application and can be used for land management purposes. This data set is not to be used for defining boundaries. Administrative decisions should be based on legal documents and legal survey plans. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: land management, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, settlement area, nunavut, northwest territories, canada lands, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, indian reserves, boundaries, human dimensions, first nations lands, yukon first nations, polar, cree-naskapi, kanesatake, aboriginal lands, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land tenure, land surface, land resources, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, marine parks, canada, cgdi, property rights, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, lsd, western hemisphere, national parks, 
TITLE: GOES-11 and GOES-12 Satellite Imagery from NASA Public Use of Remote Sensing Data Program (RSD). ABSTRACT: Hourly GOES-10 and GOES-12 weather satellite images are available from NASA's Public Use of Remote Sensing Program by way of the following programs: GOES Project Science -------------------- The GOES Project Science project offers GOES-10 and GOES-12 satellite imagery available for the previous 24 hours. The spatial coverage includes the full earth, United States, Pacific Ocean, South America, and Central America. This imagery is in GIF, TIF, and JPG format. GIF and JPG files can be viewed in any web browser. You will need a TIF image viewer to see the TIF files. View and Download Images: "http:  rsd.gsfc.nasa.gov goes ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic, sky cover, goes i-m imager, public use of remote sensing data project, caribbean, argentina, north america, grid data, imagery, south america, humidity, spectral, engineering, netherlands antilles, caribbean sea, radiometers, north pacific ocean, cuba, cape verde, infrared wavelengths, hourly data, surface, atmospheric phenomena, nicaragua, atmospheric water vapor, visible wavelengths, ocean, central america, water vapor, gulf of mexico, cloud cover, satellite data, geographic region, ecuador, continent, visible imagery, rsd, brazil, north atlantic ocean, infrared imagery, clouds, peru, new zealand, panama, united states of america, geostationary operational environmental satellite 12, geostationary operational environmental satellite 11, reflected infrared, polar, cloud types, great lakes, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, earth science, usa, nasa, mexico, cloud amount, frequency, goes-12, bahamas, upper air, goes-11, atlantic ocean, storms, 
TITLE: NCAR ATD Integrated Surface Flux Facility (ISFF) Surface Data Archive. ABSTRACT: NCAR's Integrated Surface Flux Facility maintains an archive of surface data from various projects. The projects include the following: OHATS04, August - Sept, 2004 Martha's Vineyard, MA CME04, Jun - Sept, 2004 Niwot Ridge, Colorado ATST, May 2004 Big Bear Lake, California DASH04, Jan, 2004 BAO, Erie, Colorado HVAMS03, Sep - Oct, 2003 Hudson Valley, New York FLOSSII, Dec 2002 - Mar 2003 Walden, Colorado NIWOT02, Aug - Sept 2002 Nederland, Colorado IHOP 2002, May - June 2002 Kansas, Oklahoma FLOSS, Dec 2001 - Mar 2002 Walden, Colorado AOE01, July - Aug 2001 Arctic Ocean ISCAT00, Nov - Dec 2000 South Pole HATS SGS00, Sept 2000 San Joaquin Valley, California EBEX00, July-Aug 2000 San Joaquin Valley, California OASIS00, Feb-June 2000 Oklahoma Mesonet CASES99, October 1999 Walnut River Watershed, Kansas SHEBA Flux Pam, Oct 1997-Oct 1998 Arctic Ocean OASIS98, June-Aug 1998 Norman, Oklahoma CASES97, Apr-May 1997 Walnut River Watershed, Kansas FLATLAND96, Jun-Aug 1996 Champagne Urbana, Illinois SCMS95, Jul-Aug 1995 Mims, Florida MICROFRONTS95 Feb-Mar 1995 De Graf, Kansas DOWNWASH94, Feb-Mar 1994 Sayreville, New Jersey CACHE94, Aug-Sep 1994 Neah Bay, Washington FOOTPRINT92, May-Jun 1992 Richland, Washington STORMFEST92, Feb-Mar 1992 Sabetha, Kansas SJVAQS91, July-Aug 1991 Firebaugh, California ARM91, Feb-Mar 1991 Platteville, Colorado FLAT90, Sep-Nov 1990 Carpenter, Wyoming PAM I and II Projects, 1979-1993 Access Data: "http:  www.atd.ucar.edu rtf surface_archive ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, precipitation rate, arctic, wind profiles, precipitation anomalies, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, usa, ncar, north america, storm-fest, net radiation, humidity, thermometers, soil temperature, meteorological stations, storm-fronts experiment systems test, relative humidity, surface pressure, aneroid barometers, surface air temperature, anemometers, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, continent, sea level pressure, air temperature, agriculture, united states of america, soils, surface winds, polar, carbon dioxide, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, fixed observation stations, earth science, land surface, sheba, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, sonic anemometer, hygrometers, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 0.05Deg CMG (MOD10C1) consists of 7200-column by 3600-row global arrays of snow cover in a 0.05 deg climate modeling grid (CMG). Data and quality assurance (QA) fields are in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, global, echo, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, climate modeling grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, cmg, swath, 
TITLE: Krypton and Xenon in the past atmosphere from trapped air in ice cores. ABSTRACT: Krypton N2 and xenon N2 data from trapped air in GISP2 ice core, Greenland (25-14 kyr BP), Dome Fuji ice core, Antarctica (25 kyr BP to recent), and Vostok ice core, Antarctica (125 kyr BP to 110 kyr BP). These measurements are used to infer past changes in mean ocean temperature, based on solubility relationships. Argon and krypton isotopic ratios, along with d15N of N2, are used to make gravitational and thermal fractionation corrections, to reconstruct the atmospheric ratios.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, ocean, sst indices, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, climate indicators, greenland, usa, nsf, north america, isotopes, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, atmospheric chemistry, ice sheets, amd, ice core records, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Population Ecumene Census Division Boundary File (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The population ecumene is disseminated to enable users to thematically map census division data. It enables users to display data where population is concentrated (where there are ecumene pockets) in Canada. Thus, data that describes population characteristics can be assigned to and displayed within the ecumene. The files and surrounding shoreline have been generalized to be suitable for cartographic display at a small scale (1:20,000,000 to 1:25,000,000). The ecumene product consists of three layers: 2001 Population ecumene with integrated census divisions, 2001 Census divisions, 2001 Provinces   territories. Data from the 2001 Census is also included with these files. The ecumene boundary layer includes the following data for census divisions: 2001 census population, Population change between 1996 and 2001, 2001 census population density per square kilometre. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: coordinate pair Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: meters Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.2572222 z39.50s:  geogratis.cgdi.gc.ca:6675 Population File (2001 Census), Canada. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, county, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, population distribution, administrative boundaries, basemap data, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, census, new brunswick, political divisions, municipal, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: High-resolution Global Conductivity, Temperature and Depth Data Available from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. ABSTRACT: The Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Physical Oceanography Research Division, makes available high-resolution conductivity, temperature and depth (CTD) data via the internet. The data were collected globally on more than 90 cruises at more than 9680 stations.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, global, equatorial, sea surface, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, polar, vertical location, salinity, amd, us, std, southern ocean, idn_node gsfc, sio, pord, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water depth, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, temperature, depth, amd, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Regional Survey of Greenland, 1988 - Snow Pit Data. ABSTRACT: Information from two 2-meter snow pits, five 4-meter snow pits, and two 6-meter snow pits, all dug in 1988 from selected sites in Greenland, includes chemistry (H+), stable isotopes (Ca, Cl, Na, K, Mg, NH4, NO3, SO4, MSA), oxygen isotope information (18O) and radionuclide information. Surface snow samples were also extracted from the 6-meter snow pits. All snow pits had a 3-cm sampling interval. The pits and surface snow samples were collected by the Glacier Research Group (GRG), using established protocols to prevent contamination. All data except the oxygen isotope data, which is from the University of Washington, were generated by GRG at the University of New Hampshire.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, arcss, gisp2, opp8619158, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, usa, noaa, potassium (k), paleoclimate, arctic system science, sodium (na), calcium (ca), gisp2, greenland, arcss046, usa, nsf, chernobyl, sulfate (so4), snow cover, nitrate (no3), north america, isotopes, greenland ice sheet project ii, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, snow density, polar, radionuclides, methylsulfonic acid (msa), arctic system science data coordination center, chloride (cl), earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, ammonium (nh4), adcc, snow pits, opp-8619158, national science foundation, ice core records, magnesium (mg), geographic region, oxygen isotopes, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Daily Arctic Ocean Rawinsonde Data from Soviet Drifting Ice Stations. ABSTRACT: This archive of daily rawinsonde measurements of wind direction and speed, atmospheric pressure, humidity, air temperature, and geopotential height as well as surface-based observation of cloud cover (amount, type and height) from Soviet North Pole drifting stations was assembled under the direction of Dr. J. Kahl, with funding from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, and the Electric Power Research Institute. Soundings were recorded from April 19, 1954 to July 31, 1990 at drifting stations located in the Arctic Ocean, north of approximately 70 degrees North. Data were obtained from several different sources. All of these data are ultimately derived from the set of bound volumes of handwritten tables kept at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) in St. Petersburg, Russia. Data are in 21 ASCII text format files with an average size of under 10 MB. The data are available via ftp.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, arctic, moscow, wind velocity, usa, noaa, atmospheric pressure measurements, russia, rawinsonde, rawinsondes, cloud cover height, relative humidity, russian, dew point depression, sounding, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, atmospheric winds, ocean weather stations, earth observing system data information system, st petersburg, cloud cover, geographic region, drifting stations, altitude, air temperature, clouds, eosdis, geopotential height, cao, central aerological observatory, earth science information partners program, arctic and antarctic research institute, surface winds, polar, cloud types, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, soviet, atmospheric pressure, cloud cover amount, cloud amount, frequency, aari, esip, cloud cover type, drifting station, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with 52GG trawl by 16th CHINARE_52GG_2 in 1999-2000. ABSTRACT: 26 52GG planktonic samples were collected from the Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Daily Air and Active Layer Temperatures From Permafrost Observatories in Alaska, 1986-2001. ABSTRACT: This data set contains air and soil temperatures collected from eight sites in Alaska between 1986 and 2001. The data were obtained by remote, battery-powered, computer-controlled automatic temperature loggers. Temperatures recorded were usually in the air, at the ground surface, in the active layer, at the permafrost table, and in the permafrost. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9531220. Data are available by FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsf, nsidc, continent, opp9531220, active layer, atmospheric temperature, permafrost table, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, usa, nsf, united states of america, arcss106, north america, alaska, borehole temperatures, soil temperature, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, ground-based observations, polar, temperature profilers, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, opp-9531220, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Soil Temperature. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes soil temperature data measured at 0, 5, and 10 cm. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: arws, continent, polar, amd, us, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, land surface, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, agriculture, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, automatic remote weather station, amd, soil temperature, geographic region, soils, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Cumulative Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Southern Ocean data from the Discovery Reports (1925-1951). ABSTRACT: The data set comprises the series of nine Discovery Reports published between 1929 and 1957, containing station lists of measurements taken by RRS Discovery and RRS William Scoresby and staff of the Marine Biological Station at South Georgia between 1925 and 1939. The final report of the series contains station lists of observations made by RRS Discovery between May 1950 and December 1951 on passage to the Southern Ocean as well as in the Southern Ocean itself. Discovery station numbers 1 to 2911, William Scoresby stations WS1 to WS1107, Marine Biological Station MS1 to MS106, South Sandwich Islands stations 1 to 58 and Ross Sea stations 1 to 29 are included in the data set. Measurements included in the station lists are as follows: soundings, temperature, salinity, oxygen, nutrients, meteorological and sea state observations and a variety of biological observations. AVAILABILITY: Reports can be consulted at BODC; extracts can be photocopied. [This description was derived from the BODC WWW pages.]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, wind force, atmospheric temperature, sediment corers, arctic, bathythermographs, water temperature, ocean temperature, atmospheric pressure measurements, plankton nets, thermometers, south atlantic, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, oxygen, dry bulb air temperature, ocean chemistry, pelagic habitat, wind direction, australia, swells, reversing thermometer, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric winds, bathymetry, seafloor topography, red sea, dry bulb temperature, ships, nitrite, benthic habitat, water depth, north atlantic, ocean, oceans, amd, salinity, density, australian coast, geographic region, biological observations, indian ocean, radar echo sounders, continent, peruvian coast, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, nitrate, mediterranean sea, wet bulb temperature, plankton, ocean waves, dredging devices, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, salinity, soundings, southern ocean, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, zooplankton, earth science, phosphate, ceos, coring devices, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, water bottles, silicate, sea state, wet bulb air temperature, seismic reflection profilers, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: BIGFOOT LEAF AREA INDEX SURFACES FOR NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICAN SITES, 2000-2003. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BigFoot project gathered leaf area index (LAI) data for nine EOS Land Validation Sites located from Alaska to Brazil from 2000 to 2003. Each site is representative of one or two distinct biomes, including the Arctic tundra; boreal evergreen needleleaf forest; temperate cropland, grassland, evergreen needleleaf forest, and deciduous broadleaf forest; desert grassland and shrubland; and tropical evergreen broadleaf forest. LAI was measured at plots within each site for at least two years using standard direct and optical methods at each site. Direct measurement approaches included periodic area harvest for non-forest sites and application of allometric equations to tree diameter data for forest sites. LAI was also estimated indirectly using the Li-Cor LAI-2000 Plant Canopy Analyzers (Gower et al. 1999). LAI was measured three times each year at the forest sites and four to six times at other sites depending upon the phenology of LAI development for a given ecosystem. To develop LAI surfaces at any given site, the Landsat ETM+ image closest in date to maximum LAI was chosen as a reference and images from other dates radiometrically normalized to it. Each LAI surface has a grain of 25 meters and covers a 7 x 7 km extent. The data set consists of the LAI surface images in standard geotiff format, an accompanying text file which provides metadata specific to the image (such as projection, data type, class names, etc), and associated auxiliary and world files. Additional information on LAI measurements and surface development can be found on the BigFoot website at http:  www.fsl.orst.edu larse bigfoot ovr_mthd.html. BigFoot Project Background: Reflectance data from MODIS, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer onboard NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite Terra (http:  landval.gsfc.nasa.gov MODIS index.php), is used to produce several science products including land cover, leaf area index (LAI) and net primary p roduction (NPP). The overall goal of the BigFoot Project was to provi de validation of these products. To do this, BigFoot combined ground measurements, additional high resolution remote sensing data, and ecosystem process models at nine flux tower sites representing different biomes to evaluate the effects of the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem characteristics on MODIS products. BigFoot characterized up to a 7 x 7 km area (49 MODIS pixels) surrounding the CO2 flux towers located at each of the nine sites. We collected multi-year, in situ measurements of ecosystem structure and functional characteristics related to the terrestrial carbon cycle. Our sampling design allowed us to examine scales and spatial pattern of these properties, the inter-annual variability and validity of MODIS products, and provided for a field-based ecological characterization of the flux tower footprint. BigFoot was funded by NASA's Terrestrial Ecology Program.. KEYWORD: konz, alaksa, manitoba, leaf area index, echo, lai, temperate mixed forest, north america, massachusetts, south america, cropland, land cover, validation, modis, barrow, metl, metolious, tapa, tallgrass prairie, harvard forest lter, biosphere, kansas, sevi, temperate needleleaf forest, canada, earth observing system data information system, tapajos, landsat-7, continent, tund, brazil, bigfoot, illinois, vegetation, canopy characteristics, sevilleta lter, harv, agro, otter, eosdis, earth science information partners program, park falls, enhanced thematic mapper plus, konza prairie, wisconsin, nobs, etm+, boreal forest, earth science, usa, nasa, arctic tundra, bondville, esip, desert, new mexico, oregon cascades, boreas, cheq, tropical broadleaf evergreen forest, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Monthly Climatology Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Arctic Soil Freeze Thaw Status from SMMR and SSM I, Version 2. ABSTRACT: This data set contains near-surface (< 5 cm) soil freeze thaw status on snow-free and snow-covered land surfaces over the Arctic terrestrial drainage basin. The near-surface soil freeze thaw status is determined by using passive-microwave remote sensing data over snow-free land and a numerical model over snow-covered land. Data are projected to a 25 km x 25 km Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid. Version 2 of this data set greatly extends the temporal coverage and makes use of data from SMMR as well as SSM I. Data are from October 1978 to June 2004. Data are in ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: polar, seasonal freeze, thaw, special sensor microwave, imager, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, land surface, freeze, thaw, smmr, usa, noaa, ssm, i, seasonally frozen ground, nimbus-7, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, frozen ground, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, 
TITLE: U.S. Navy Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center's (FNMOC) NOGAPS Computational Grids. ABSTRACT: Four times daily global forcing fields from the US Navy NOGAPS model on 720X360 (averaged resolution of 0.5 degree) Gaussian computational grids. Notice: These are Gaussian grids, not evenly spaced rectangular grids. If you need rectangular grids, use the standard 360X181 (standard 1 degree NOGAPS products). Further details on the NOGAPS model can be found at: "https:  www.fnmoc.navy.mil PUBLIC MODEL_REPORTS MODEL_SPEC nogaps4.0.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, weather prediction, mid-latitude, arctic, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, south america, humidity, model, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, albedo, models, africa, surface, solar radiation, australia, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, oceans, atmospheric radiation, continent, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, global, air temperature, equatorial, geopotential height, heat fluxes, temperature, europe, surface winds, gridded data, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, dods, tropics, planetary boundary layer height, tropical indian ocean, esip, ocean surface winds, isotachs, ice concentration, distributed oceanographic data system, godae, upper level winds, precipitation amount, tropical west pacific, atmospheric temperature, navy, thickness, north america, vertical velocity, wind stress, geopotential heights, pressure, antarctica, cumulus cloud fraction, ocean, water vapor, south pacific ocean, amd, geographic region, opendap, indian ocean, altitude, clouds, new zealand, earth science information partners program, winds, daily data, heat flux, amd, us, global ocean data assimilation experiment, tropical east pacific, vorticity, cloud types, weather forecast models, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, relative vorticity, usa, nasa, tropical atlantic, ocean heat budget, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Landscape Map of the Russian Arctic Coastal Zone. ABSTRACT: The map consists of ESRI Shapefiles of landscape polygons (in landscape unit types) for the Russian Arctic coastal zone (scale 1:4,000,000). The map is based on a digital circumpolar Lambert projection map. Polygons have a single attribute (LAND-ID). LAND-ID is an eight-character code that describes the landscape unit. The first two digits code zone, the third and fourth code landscape, the fifth through seventh code lithology, and the eighth codes substrate chemistry. The code is described in detail in an accompanying legend. Large polygons enclosing islands, or continental land areas between major rivers, form the boundaries of many smaller landscape polygons. These large enclosing polygons have LAND-ID values of 0. Some smaller islands (e.g., Zemlya Frantsa) have no codes associated with them. Areas on the far eastern portion of the map also have no code.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, geomorphology, alpine, tundra, lacustrine wetlands, ggd, arctic, glacialogical, soil, usa, noaa, marine, wetlands, russia, glacial landforms, processes, aquatic ecosystems, soils, map, europe, soil classification, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, geographic zones, earth science, ceos, land surface, landscape patterns, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, sediment, eastern europe, coastal landforms, processes, lacustrine, geographic region, landscape, coastal, 
TITLE: Chlorophyll-a determination in Kongsfjoren in 2007. ABSTRACT: Five sites (k1,k2,k3,k4,k5) were set in Kongsfjorden in July 2007. Water samples were collected in different layers as 0m, 2m, 5m, 10m, 20m,30m,50m,75m,100m,150m and 200m. Chlorophyll a was determined using the fluorometric method.. KEYWORD: polar, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, king_bay, chla, ocean, spectrofluorometer, oceans, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, sfm, geographic region, 
TITLE: Surface Temperature and Salinity Data in Bering Sea and Chuckchi Sea. ABSTRACT: During the first voyage of Chinese National Arctic Research Expedition, at 87 sites along the voyage line and in Bering Sea and Chuckchi Sea, a TS measuring system (YS1) was used to measure temperature, salinity and conductivity data in surface water from July 7 to August 25, 1999 as the basic data for the subject of MEBCS China-Korea Cooperation Project.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, bering sea, polar, salinity, chuckchi sea, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, ships, conductivity, ocean, sst, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Analysis of Glacier Hazard Potentials By Knowledge-Based Remote Sensing Fusion for GIS Modeling (AGREG). ABSTRACT: Snow, glaciers and permafrost in cold mountain areas such as the Swiss Alps are especially sensitive to changes in environmental conditions due to their proximity to melting conditions. In addition, mass wasting is most intensive in those mountain areas with high relief energy. Environmental changes in high mountain regions substantially influence the potential for glacial and periglacial hazards. Ice- and moraine-dammed lakes represent a widespread hazard potential closely related to glacier fluctuations. Magnitude and frequency of ice avalanches from steep glaciers - in principle a normal expression of mass exchange under such topographic conditions - are coupled with stability conditions affected by glacier advance retreat and, hence, with long-term atmospheric impacts. Steep and unstable reservoirs of loose debris, a potential source of debris flows, are often the result of glacier shrinkage. In a similar way, changes in the stress regime due to vanishing glaciers lead to potential destabilization of adjacent valley flanks. Since the Alps are among the most densely populated high mountain areas in the world, Switzerland is particularly impacted by glacial and periglacial hazards but, on the other hand, also has an extensive and well-recognized tradition in investigating such processes. A number of specific monitoring and modeling studies related to single hazardous situations have been performed, mainly based on recent catastrophes or imminent hazard situations. An urgent need exists for area-wide modeling of glacier hazard potentials with a view to establishing an integrated and adequate information base for planning and detailed monitoring, but a corresponding systematic approach is, for the present, still lacking. The proposed project aims at closing this gap in several ways: Work Package (WP) (1): By developing techniques for detection of glacier hazard potentials based on optical spaceborne remote sensing data which rarely has been used to date in Swiss glacier monitoring; multispectral analyses and multitemporal and multiscale fusion will play a major role in this, with a special focus on recent or upcoming high resolution sensors. WP (2): By integrating empirical models for glacier hazard assessment into geographical information systems (GIS) which have proven to be successful for hazard simulation but have not been used yet for determining glacier hazard potentials; GIS modeling especially allows for the fusion of remote sensing and elevation data for spatial (3D) analyses. To ensure high synergy, WPs (1) and (2) will be closely related to the ongoing SNF project "The Swiss Glacier Inventory 2000" (SWI 2000) (no. 21-54073.98) and the international project "Global Land Ice Monitoring from Space" (GLIMS). WP (3): By applying the methods from WPs (1) and (2), an initial attempt will be undertaken to implement an area-wide model for integrating glacier hazard potentials of extensive regions in the Swiss Alps following a downscaling strategy with varying resolution and accuracy levels, both with respect to data and to models. As hazard management in Switzerland is the domain of local and regional authorities, the proposed project does not aim at preparing detailed local hazard maps (Gefahrenkarten), but rather will provide new remote sensing and modeling techniques for decision support. It should demonstrate the usefulness of these techniques for overview mapping (Gefahrenhinweiskarten) as a basis for decision-making and for scenario simulations in connection with climate change effects. The efforts made in this project will contribute to handle economically complex mathematical and physical models and represent a decision basis for the specific need of further detailed case studies. A further outcome will be a documentation of historical glacier catastrophes in the Swiss Alps, which will - among others - be used for model calibration and verification. [Summary provided by Christian Huggel, University of Zurich.]. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, terra, arctic, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, surface roughness, aqua, topographic effects, global land, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, modis, models, infrared wavelengths, aster, high mountains, maps, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, topography, natural hazards, glaciers, ice sheets, ice avalanches, visible wavelengths, topographical relief, glacier hazards, geographic region, glaciers, landsat-7, visible imagery, icebergs, infrared imagery, geographic information systems, earth observing system, terra (am-1), gis, debris flow, thematic mapper, snow, ice, polar, gis modeling, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, usa, nasa, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, meteorological hazards, ice sheets, earth observing system, aqua, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, avalanche, tm, landsat, 
TITLE: Sclerochronology of Mollusk Arctica islandica. ABSTRACT: Arctica islandica growth band widths showing synchronization of growth among members of a population, including first composite sclerochronology incorporating dead-collected ("fossil") mollusks. Also given are aspartic acid, standardized SST (after Lazzari, 1995), and standardized temperature from shell d18O (after Weidman, 1995) data.. KEYWORD: mollusks, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, past global changes, igbp, north atlantic ocean, ocean temperature, georges bank, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, pages, sst, ocean, lake records, isotopes, sea surface temperature, paleoclimate reconstructions, sclerochronology, macrofossils, earth science, ceos, iceland, d18o, nantucket shoals, ocean, coral deposits, oceans, atlantic ocean, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Seabird distributions during the upwelling season of 2000, northern California Current system, GLOBEC.. ABSTRACT: As a part of the GLOBEC-Northeast Pacific project, seabird populations were surveyed on two cruises to northern portion of the California Current System. The surveys were conducted simultaneously in June (onset of upwelling) and August (mature phase of upwelling). Observations were conducted continuously during daylight, using a 300-m-wide transect strip. Within that strip, birds were counted that occurred within the 90 degree quadrant off the ship's bow. Two observers were on watch during all survey periods. R V New Horizon cruises: NH0005 28 May - 13 June 2000 NH0007 27 July - 12 Aug 2000 Note: A second survey was conducted in 2002. As of (Sept 12, 2005), the 2002 data set has not been released by the PI.. KEYWORD: biological classification, long-tailed jaeger, ecological dynamics, arctic, south polar skua, sabine's gull, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, xantus' murrelet, north america, pigeon guillemot, parasitic jaeger, marbled murrelet, california, north pacific ocean, international geosphere-biosphere programme, brown pelican, pomarine jaeger, arctic tern, western gull, biosphere, common murre, animals, vertebrates, ships, red phalarope, pink-footed shearwater, ocean, glaucous-winged gull, ring-bill gull, geographic region, pacific loon, leach's storm-petrel, continent, eastern pacific ocean, brandt's cormorant, coastal california, flesh-footed shearwater, northern fulmar, pelagic cormorant, birds, laysan albatross, u.s. global ocean ecosystem dynamics, northeast pacific, united states of america, fork-tailed storm-petrel, igbp, polar, california current system, pacific ocean, earth science, red-necked phalarope, usa, nasa, population dynamics, black-footed albatross, heermann's gull, california gull, u.s.globec-nep, species, population interactions, common loon, sooty shearwater, globec, 
TITLE: National Museum of Natural History Invertebrate Zoology Collections. ABSTRACT: NMNH Invertebrate Zoology Collections records, 8784 Bryozoa, 68401 Coelenterates, 220965 Crustacea, 75012 Echinoderms, 196851 Mollusks, 28853 Porifera, 16466 Tunicates, 171401 Worms, 93268 General; Total number of 884216 records currently represent approximately 33% of actual specimen holdings, as of 10 May 2007. Total Distribution Records: 884216 Total Number of Taxa: 39547. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, census of antarctic marine life, biological classification, sponges, crustaceans, arthropods, echinoderms, arctic, western pacific ocean, rivers, stream habitat, obis, remotely operated vehicles, burrows, spoon worms, plankton nets, segmented worms (annelids), aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, south atlantic ocean, north pacific ocean, acorn worms, coml, peanut worms, pelagic habitat, biosphere, tunicates, horsehair worms, trawl, arrow worms, ipy, benthic habitat, habitat coverage: estuarine, ocean, south pacific ocean, amd, habitat coverage: oceanic (epipelagic, mesopelagic, bathypelagic,benthopelagic), obis, us, geographic region, indian ocean, scar marine biodiversity information network, eastern pacific ocean, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, habitat coverage: temperate freshwater lakes, streams, north atlantic ocean, global, bryozoans, moss animals, habitat coverage: tropical freshwater lakes, streams, ribbon worms, caml, rov, international polar year, flatworms, flukes, tapeworms, polar, census of marine life, southern ocean, marine (tropical, temperate, polar), eba, pacific ocean, amd, scar-marbin, earth science, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, obis, scar-marbin, scar-marbin, roundworms, habitat coverage: littoral, pelagic, neritic, atlantic ocean, central pacific ocean, estuarine habitat, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: Alaska High Altitude Aerial Photography (AHAP) Program. ABSTRACT: [From GeoData Center Home Page descriptions, "http:  www.gi.alaska.edu services geodata "] The GeoData Center is the browse facility for the state copy of the AHAP collection, which covers approximately 95% of the State of Alaska in 1:60,000 color infrared (CIR) and 1:120,000 black and white (B&W) photography. The data reside in 10" film format. Approximately 70,000 frames of photography were acquired between 1978 and 1986.. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, high altitude, arctic, aedd, rivers, stream habitat, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, infrared wavelengths, aerial photography, topography, vegetation cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, visible wavelengths, ahap, geographic region, usgs, geodesy, photography, usa, usgs, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, city, vegetation, infrared imagery, cameras, wetlands, united states of america, lakes, cultural features, polar, aircraft, earth science, cryosphere, aerial photos, air photos, ceos, land surface, urban, infrastructure, rivers, streams, 
TITLE: Meteorology and Soil Temperatures, Hot Weather Creek, Ellesmere Island, NWT, Canada. ABSTRACT: The instrumentation was installed in June 1988 and was initially maintained by the Arctic Adaptation Division Canadian Climate Centre, Atmospheric Environment Service (CCC AES) with field support by Geological Survey of Canada (GSC). It consists of a Campbell Scientific CR10 micrologger with meteorological sensors for air temperature and relative humidity, wind speed and direction, and solar incoming radiation. It also supports a snow depth sensor, an experimental vegetation temperature and four ground temperatures. It is powered by a 25-AH, 12-volt gel cell (a second gel cell was added in 1989) charged by a 10-watt solar panel. Hourly and Daily sampling was carried out. Data have been quality controlled and fully documented (see documentation files accompanying the data). The High Arctic Integrated Research and Monitoring Area (IRMA) of the GSC was established on Fosheim Peninsula to support interdisciplinary studies related to environmental change. Research carried out between 1989 and 1994, had as primary objective to determine relationships between geomorphic processes and climate in order to help predict the potential geologic impact of global change. Establishment of detailed paleoclimatic records for this region has also been considered essential to provide a context for ongoing climate change. Paleoecological studies (records of peat cores, lakes cores, ice cores, sea cores and archeological records) in concert with other methodologies have been used to outline climatic variability (short, middle or long-term variabilities) and are a primary research component in the region. A major compilation of 20 papers has been produced (see Garneau in press) involving 34 participants from government, universities and industry. The synthesis includes the results from studies of modern conditions (climate, flora and fauna), quaternary geology and glacial history, paleoenvironmental records (i.e. ice cores, ocean, lakes, peat, archeological sites), permafrost dynamics and hydrologic systems. Nine appendices complete the document including a comprehensive bibliography and various data series (climate, vegetation, insects, geophysics, plant and arthropod macrofossils and radiocarbon dates) to provide background forfuture projects in the area. These data are on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM, and were identified for inclusion through the efforts of Kathy Young, Ph.D. graduate of Department of Geography, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, ggd, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, north america, ocean, lake records, humidity, hot weather creek plateau site, fosheim peninsula, soil temperature, land records, climate change, ground-based observations, surface winds, global geocryological data system, polar, meteorology, macrofossils, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, solar radiation, land surface, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, permafrost, canada, water vapor, snow, frozen ground, ice core records, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, 
TITLE: Fishing Zones. ABSTRACT: The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) is a regional fisheries body that incorporates scientific advice and management. Sixteen countries plus the EU signed the NAFO Convention that applies to most fishery resources of the Northwest Atlantic. The NAFO Convention Area encompasses a very large portion of the Atlantic Ocean and includes the 200-mile zones of Coastal States jurisdiction (USA, Canada, St. Pierre et Miquelon and Greenland). Management by NAFO, however, applies only to the areas straddling and outside the EEZs (Exclusive Economic Zones). See: http:  www.nafo.int  Displays the NAFO (Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization) zones and territorial limits and allows users to query the information on each zone. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, biological classification, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northern hemisphere, north america, boundaries, geobrowser, human dimensions, geoportal, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, animals, vertebrates, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, fish, new brunswick, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic and North Atlantic Region Magnetic Data. ABSTRACT: This collection consists of magnetic anomaly data derived from measurements of the Earth's magnetic field. Included are raw point-form measurements, processed values ordered by profile, processed digital grids at various resolutions, and digital map images prepared from grids. Marine data in Canadian regions were typically collected by Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) and Canadian Hydrographic Service on research cruises, while aeromagnetic data over onshore (and some offshore) areas were collected by GSC (Ottawa). GSCA compiled and processed data from GSC and numerous international sources to produce digital grids of selected areas in Atlantic Canada, the North Atlantic Ocean and the Arctic Ocean.Magnetic anomaly data contain information about present day and remnant magnetization of rocks. These data are used in determining rock composition and ages, geologic structural mapping, depth-to-basement determinations and plate tectonic reconstructions. Clients include research scientists and exploration staff, particularly in mineral exploration. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, gcmd, arctic, north atlantic ocean, labrador sea, marine geophysics, atlantic canada, none, nunavut, northwest territories, tectonophysics, aeromagnetics, northern hemisphere, canada offshore east, paleontology, north america, baffin bay, magnetic anomaly, continental margin, marine magnetics, polar, geochronology, geochemistry, earth science, ceos, geophysics, climate, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, geomagnetism, canada offshore north, marine gravity field, oceans, davis straight, reference fields, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: NCAD - North American Conservation Areas Database. ABSTRACT: NCAD represents conservation areas in North America (Canada, USA and Mexico) represented as point locations. The database contains attributes such as designation, IUCN categories, management authority, year of establishment, hectares size, North American Ecological Region Level 1, North American Ecological Region Level 2 and other items. When using NCAD, there are some important considerations to note. For example, there are considerations pertaining to the accuracy, completeness and intent of the NCAD data. Please refer to the summary report that accompanies the database. It is available as an ArcInfo export format file (.e00) as well as a MS Access file (.mdb).- To report on the status of conservation areas in North America. - To assist jurisdictions and organizations in the development of conservation areas strategies. - To provide governments, non-governmental organizations and industries with conservation areas indicators. - To assist agencies and groups in advancing strategies devoted to biodiversity and conservation planning and natural area protection. The main sources of these databases are: (`1) United States Managed Areas Database: McGhie, Gavin R. (1996) 'Creation of a Comprehensive Managed Areas Spatial Database for the Conterminous United States'. Summary Project Technical Report NASA-NAGW-1743. Remote Sensing Research Unit, University of California, Santa Barbara. (2) Mexican Protected Areas Database: Ordonez, Maria de Jesus and Flores, Oscar (1995) 'Areas Naturales Protegidas'. Serie de Cuadernos de Conservacion No. 4. Pronatura. Mexico, D.F. (3) Canadian Conservation Areas Database (CCAD): Canadian Council on Ecological Areas (1999) 'Canadian Conservation Areas Database'. Ottawa Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: country, jurisdiction and ecological region Direct Spatial Reference: Point location Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: conservation areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, landscape ecology, nunavut, equatorial, northwest territories, united states of america, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, yukon territory, environmental management, vertical location, polar, biodiversity, ecological regions, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, protected areas, prince edward island, landscape management, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, landscape, 
TITLE: Snow pits chemistry dataset Vestfonna 2008 (Poland). ABSTRACT: Data on ionic chemistry from 2 snow pits at Vestfonna. Collected during Kinnvika spring campaign 2008. KEYWORD: polar, kinnvika, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ipy, ocean, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, snow, ice, 
TITLE: Polar Pathfinder Daily 25 km EASE-Grid Sea Ice Motion Vectors. ABSTRACT: Daily ice motion vectors are computed from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR), Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR), Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), and International Arctic Buoy Programme (IABP) buoy data. Daily gridded fields combine data from all sensors, from November 1978 through December 2006. Grids extend from 48.4 &deg; N to 90 &deg; N, and from 53.2&deg; S to 90&deg; S. Mean gridded fields include yearly, monthly, and weekly means, and a mean for the entire time series. Both daily and mean gridded fields are in 2-byte integer format, reprojected to 25 km Northern and Southern Hemisphere EASE-Grids. Browse images of mean fields are available in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) and Enhanced Postscript (EPS) format. Raw ice motion vectors from each sensor are in tab-delimited ASCII text format. The complete data set is available via FTP. Registration for data is optional, but encouraged; registered users automatically receive e-mail notification of data updates.. KEYWORD: nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, buoys, nimbus-7, noaa-14, noaa-12, sea ice, noaa-11, sea ice motion, drifting buoys, remote sensing, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, antarctica, passive microwave data, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, passive microwave, earth observing system data information system, ocean, oceans, amd, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, continent, special sensor microwave, imager, smmr, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, ice velocity, avhrr, gridded, gridded data, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ice motion, ssm, i, daac, nasa, noaa-9, nasa pathfinder, esip, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: Kittlitz's Murrelet Known Nest Locations (GIS layer). ABSTRACT: The Kittlitz's Murrelet Brachyramphus brevirostris is bird is a species of environmental concern, and only 21 confirmed nest locations are published for North America. A wider analysis of these nest sites is coming forward, and it appears that these nests are associated with glaciers and vulcanoe slopes. However, this is only an impression based on the small sample of nests. This species also occurs in Russia, but only few details are known. The species is reported to underlie drastic declines during the last 20 years, likely due to global change, e.g. glacier retreat. The data presented here are derived from a species account (Day et al. 1999) and geo-referenced in Arc View GIS. They can be used for further analyzing and modeling in a Geographic Information System (GIS). Caution is to be taken when interpreting these nest locations because the sample size is extremely low, and nests were found in a somewhat opportunistic fashion. For use and interpretation of this data set, please contact experts.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, ecological dynamics, earth science, nest locations, ceos, birds, biosphere, brachyramphus brevirostris, animals, vertebrates, united states of america, russia, north america, gis layers, alaska, species, population interactions, kittlitz's murrelet, environmental concerns, species life history, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Hourly Values of Magnetic Intensity Data at Observatories in the Russian Arctic. ABSTRACT: The data set is presented in the form of the files containing the data for year of separate observatory.. KEYWORD: solid earth, polar, ipy, geomagnetism, magnetic intensity, ipy field stations, arctic, earth science, international polar year, polar field stations and ipy history: culture, heritage, governance (1882-present)', geographic region, 
TITLE: Selawik National Wildlife Refuge Land Cover; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: The Selawik National Wildlife Refuge USGS digital data set contains land cover classifications for the Selawik National Wildlife Refuge. The data is derived from Landsat MSS data and elevations as well as slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can keyed to a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle. Spatial referencing is by 50-meter grid cells. Data sources are Landsat MSS data and Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data. The data set includes 101 records. Storage required varies by storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Data are available online The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: terrain elevation, digital elevation model, land status, arctic, aedd, national wildlife refuge, mss, dem, rivers, stream habitat, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, field maps, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, models, hydrology, topography, streams, land use, land cover, maps, charts, cartography, selawik natl. wildlife refuge, biosphere, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, landcover, geology, land use, united states of america, selawik, land, lakes, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, rivers, streams, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: Canadian GPS Validation Networks (GPS Basenets). ABSTRACT: The need for a "truth" against which to test Global Positioning System (GPS) accuracy and precision has led to the establishment of 15 GPS validation network sites across Canada, also known as GPS basenets. Geodetic Survey Division (GSD) provides precise standard measurements for all GPS validation networks (GPS basenet) across Canada. An agency in each of the provinces is responsible for the construction, maintenance and access policies for GPS validation network sites within their geographic area.The GPS validation networks across Canada serve as a physical standard for evaluating GPS equipment, software and positioning methodologies. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, control surveys, gps basenet, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, gps validation network, vertical, nunavut, northwest territories, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, surveying, yukon territory, reference systems, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, land surface, gps, quebec, alberta, global positioning system, standards, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Frontier Seismic Line Location Data - National Energy Board, Canada. ABSTRACT: This data set contains information on the location of geophysical surveys conducted in the Frontier areas regulated by the National Energy Board for which reports and data are no longer privileged. The information is supplied by industry pursuant to the Canada Oil and Gas Operations Act and the Canada Oil and Gas Geophysical Operations Regulations. Associated information available may include index maps, shot point locations, seismic sections and profiles, and velocity analysis.The information is provided publicly, pursuant to the Canada Petroleum Resources Act in order to promote the safety of workers, protection of the environment, conservation of the hydrocarbon resources and to increase scientific knowledge of and efficient utilisation of hydrocarbon resources. The principle uses are expected to be assessing the potential of petroleum resources, the planning of hydrocarbon exploration programs and production operations and scientific research of geological stratigraphy and tectonics. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, arctic ocean, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, offshore west coast, oil, northern hemisphere, north america, gas, gulf of st. lawrence, petroleum, north pacific ocean, polar, pacific ocean, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, canada, ocean, rocks, minerals, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: Biological Atlas of the Arctic Seas 2000-Plankton of the Barents and Kara Seas. ABSTRACT: Presented are (a) physical and biological data collected during 158 scientific cruises carried out in the period 1913-1999 and (b) data on phytoplankton collected in 1994-1999 during cruises of nuclear icebreakers in the region extending from the Barents Sea to the Kara Sea. Listed are phytoplankton and zooplankton species of the Arctic Seas. Ecological and geographic characteristics are given to each individual species. Pictures of live cells illustrate the dominant species. Based on the pattern of the annual cycle of the plankton variability, proposed criteria are presented for the quality control of phytoplankton and zooplankton data. The methods of objective analysis are used for mapping the distribution of physical and biological characteristics of the Barents and Kara Seas. Changes in the plankton community structure between the 1930's, 1950's, and 1990's are discussed. It is demonstrated that observed differences substantially exceed the error resulting from the use of various methods for plankton sampling. The goal of this work was to implement the information of the plankton communities of the Arctic Seas into the study of the ocean climatic system. To reach this goal we needed to solve the following problems: a) develop an electronic plankton database for the Barents and Kara Seas; b) document the variation in the plankton communities over periods of time. Several generations of Russian investigators, observers, and mariners collected hydrobiologic data in the Arctic Seas during the period 1910-1950. These data represent a basic tool for the study of the Arctic Seas. Many scientists involved in this research added to their knowledge, expertise and skill in making marine surveys thanks to the historic investigations of A. Linko, K. Deryugin, B. Manteifel, M. Kamshilov, E. Zelikman, and scientists of other generations. The Atlas was written in Russian and translated into English. The authors have attempted to retain the original character of the text as it was translated into English. It is published in both Russian and English. The cited website is also accessible in both Russian and English. Information to create this metadata was taken from http:  www.nodc.noaa.gov OC5 BARPLANK WWW HTML database.html. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, crustaceans, zooplankton - species counts, ecological dynamics, arctic, ammonia, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, zooplankton - species identities, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, bacillariophyta, benthic species - seasonal succession, ocean chemistry, nitrogen compounds, plankton - seasonal succession, branchiopoda, biosphere, alkalinity, w00079, branchiopods, oceans, primary productivity, crustacea, ecological studies, branchiura, total nitrogen, sio4, benthic species - relative abundance, copepoda, temperature, organic phosphates, phytoplankton - relative abundance, benthic species - species identities, phytoplankton - seasonal succession, polar, phytoplankton - species identities, chloromonadophyceae, copepods, zooplankton, ammonium (nh4), chlorophyll c, chlorophyll b, chlorophyll a, bdp, diatoms, plankton - species distribution, dinoflagellates, benthic species - species counts, esip, plankton - species counts, time series analysis, organic nitrogen, arthropods, nitrites, nitrates, benthic species, ostracods, cirripedia, fragilariophyceae, phytoplankton, arctic seas, ostracoda, oxygen, benthos, total phosphate, phytoplankton - species distribution, arthropoda, water, ecosystem functions, primary production, zooplankton - seasonal succession, benthic habitat, ocean, bacillariophyceae, geographic region, pyrrophycophyta, cephalocarida, dinophyceae, malacostraca, biological data profile, earth science information partners program, water quality, water chemistry, plankton, zooplankton - relative abundance, benthic species - species distribution, barents sea, salinity, plankton - relative abundance, nitrogen, earth science, phosphate, chlorophyll, ceos, zooplankton - species distribution, usa, nasa, silicate, phytoplankton - species counts, ph, kara sea, organic phosphorus, 
TITLE: 1:100,000-scale and 1:250,000-scale Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) Data from the U.S. Geological Survey. ABSTRACT: The set of Land Use and Land cover and associated maps consists of Land Cover, political units, hydrologic units, census county subdivisions, Federal land ownership, and State land ownership. The Land Use and Land Cover map is compiled to portray the Level II categories of the Land Use and Land Cover classification system documented by Anderson and others (1976). The Level II categories of this Land Use and Land Cover classification system provide the user with a basic framework to which third-and fourth-level categories may be added. The associated maps portray either natural or administrative information. They provide the user with the opportunity to utilize the Land Use and Land Cover maps and data, either individually or collectively, to produce graphic or tabular data for the areas portrayed on the associated maps. This mapping system is constructed in such a way that the Land Use and Land Cover data can be related to other resource fields such as soils, geology, hydrology, and demography. Data sets are also available via the World Wide Web at: URL> http:  edc.usgs.gov geodata  and via anonymous ftp at: ftp:  edcftp.cr.usgs.gov in directory  pub data LULC . KEYWORD: continent, terrain elevation, us geodata, city, arctic, vegetation, aedd, united states, geology, land use, united states of america, north america, geography, ndcdb, www, ground stations, human dimensions, satellite, cultural features, land cover, giras, us, polar, aerial photography, national digital cartographic data base, usgs, eros, topography, aircraft, earth science, aerial photos, air photos, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, idn_node gsfc, usgs, nmd, reston, urban, infrastructure, online, geographic region, usgs, geodata, land use classes, photography, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua L2B Global Swath Ocean Products derived from Wentz Algorithm. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. Measurements of ocean variables improve our understanding of a wide variety of hydrological and radiative processes, including air-sea and air-ice interactions. The Level-2B ocean swath product (AE_Ocean) contains Sea Surface Temperature (SST) at 56 km and 38 km resolution, near-surface wind speed at 38 km and 21 km resolution, columnar water vapor at 21 km resolution, columnar cloud liquid water at 12 km resolution, and quality flags. All variables were measured over oceans and are generated from the Wentz algorithm. The Level-3 daily product (AE_DyOcn), weekly product (AE_WkOcn), and monthly product (AE_MoOcn) include SST, near-surface wind speed, columnar water vapor, and columnar cloud liquid water over oceans in a 0.25 degree by 0.25 degree grid, generated from AE_Ocean. Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, greenhouse gases, cloud precipitable water, eos, water temperature, ocean temperature, equatorial trade winds, echo, usa, noaa, liquid cloud water, columnar water vapor, aqua, cloud liquid water, imagery, global ocean, sea surface temperature, amsr-e, vertically integrated cloud liquid water, column water vapor, remote sensing, cloud droplets, ae_ocean, atmospheric water vapor, passive microwave, atmospheric winds, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, columnar cloud water, sea surface winds, oceans, geographic region, indian ocean, eos pm-1, clouds, sea surface wind speeds, eosdis, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, ocean heat flux, ocean thermal energy, radiance, surface winds, ocean winds, near-surface wind speeds, pacific ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, vertically integrated water vapor over oceans, daac, ocean water temperature, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, atlantic ocean, esip, 
TITLE: Snow Pit Data from Greenland Summit, 1989 to 1993. ABSTRACT: Chemistry and isotope information from snow pits dug at the Summit area of Greenland, 1989-1993 includes major ions (Na, K, Mg, Ca, Cl, NO3, SO4), oxygen isotopes (18O) and H2O2. Four snow pits were dug and sampled in 1989, three snow pits in 1990, two in 1991, one in 1992 and one in 1993. All snow pits had a 3 cm sampling interval except the snow pits in 1990, which had either a 3 cm or 5 cm sampling interval. Chemistry and isotope information were obtained from each of the snow pits. The pits and surface snow samples were collected by the Glacier Research Group (GRG), using established protocols to prevent contamination. The samples collected in 1991 were analyzed at the GISP2 drilling camp. All data except the oxygen isotope data, which is from the University of Washington, were generated by GRG at the University of New Hampshire.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, continent, arcss, gisp2, opp8619158, arctic system science, greenland ice sheet project 2, arctic, usa, noaa, potassium (k), arctic system science, sodium (na), calcium (ca), gisp2, greenland, usa, nsf, arcss049, sulfate (so4), nitrate (no3), north america, greenland ice sheet project ii, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, snow density, polar, methylsulfonic acid (msa), arctic system science data coordination center, chloride (cl), earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, adcc, snow pits, opp-8619158, national science foundation, magnesium (mg), geographic region, hydrogen peroxide (h2o2), oxygen isotopes, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: National Air Pollution Surveillance (NAPS) Network in Canada. ABSTRACT: The National Air Pollution Surveillance (NAPS) Network was established in 1969 as a joint program of the federal and provincial governments to monitor and assess the quality of the ambient air in Canadian urban centres. Air quality data for sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ozone (O3) and total suspended particulates (TSP) are measured at over 152 stations in 55 cities in the ten provinces and two territories. Various statistics derived from the measurements and comparisons with the National Air Quality Objectives prescribed under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act are published in annual data reports. In addition to the criteria pollutants, the Division, with the assistance from provincial and municipal NAPS network cooperating agencies, carries out a number of other monitoring activities to support priority national air issues. For Canada's national Smog (Ground-Level Ozone) Management Program, data for nitric oxide, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are being collected. The NAPS database has been expanded to include ozone observations from Canadian and U.S. rural monitoring locations in order to allow analysis of regional ozone episodes. Measurements of PM10 (suspended particles with aerodynamic diameters less than 10 micro meters) and PM2.5 have been made at Canadian sites since 1984. Sample filters are analyzed for 50 elements (including toxic metals such as arsenic, lead and mercury) 14 inorganic and organic anions and 11 inorganic cations. Since 1988, the Centre has been developing and applying improved techniques for measuring potentially toxic air contaminants. Measurements of VOC (aromatics, aldehydes and ketones) and semi-volatile organic compounds (PAHs, dioxins and furans) are now carried out at 40 urban and rural locations in Canada. The data have formed the principal ambient air exposure data base for 14 Canadian Environmental Protection Act (CEPA) Priority Substances List (PSL) assessments. A number of reports which provide results from the toxic air monitoring programs are available upon request.Air quality data gathered by the NAPS Network provide the basis for evaluating air pollution control strategies, identifying urban air quality trends and for warning of emerging air pollution issues. The recognition in recent years of the importance of long range transport of air pollution (both national and international) underlines the usefulness of a nationwide network of air monitoring stations. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: NTS Map Sheet Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, air monitoring, mid-latitude, manitoba, smog, arctic, british columbia, none, sulfates, nitrates, pollution, urban air quality, no2, precipitation, air contaminants, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, grid data, acid rain, air quality, climate change, sulfur dioxide, trace gases, trace species, o3, nova scotia, atmospheric chemistry, canada, cgdi, canada, new brunswick, monthly data, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, aerosols, naps, pure air, nunavut, northwest territories, mercury emissions, particulate matter, saskatchewan, so2, emissions, digital data, polar, sulfate particles, earth science, ceos, air quality trends, co, quebec, alberta, lead, prince edward island, nitrate particles, 
TITLE: Northwest Territories, Canada, Land Cover Classifications, USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: This digital data set of Canada (Northwest Territories) contains land cover classifications derived from Landsat MSS data. It can be keyed on a Canadian 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cells. The data source is Landsat MSS data (no DEM data contained). There are 5 records and storage of them varies by storage required and storage medium and selected area. The file structure is sequential. Data are available on: 9-track, 800 bpi, 1600 bpi, 6250 bpi, unlabeled, unblocked, BCD, fixed record length tape and 8' floppy disk. Subsets and custom formats are available; limited documentation is also available. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. General area covered: Northwest Territories in Canada.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, aedd, vegetation, geology, mss, northwest territories, field geology, north america, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, land cover, wildlife, polar, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, cartography, canada, geographic region, usgs, multispectral scanner, land use classes, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Thick and thin sections and salinity and temperature profiles from natural refrozen and artificially refrozen sea ice cracks. ABSTRACT: Large marine organisms, specifically foraminifers and copepods, were collected from the sea ice, brine and water column from thin ice north of Beaufort Island at the beginning of the warming period when the brine channels in the sea ice are widening, providing a conduit for organisms at the bottom of the ice to migrate to the top. A suit of ice cores were collected from 9 stations in sea ice varying in thickness. Eight stations were on ice that formed last winter and one station was on second year ice in which the brine channels from the previous year were closed but clearly visible. At each station, a complete core (cut into approximately 25cm sections), a brine sample and an under-ice plankton tow was collected. Corresponding cores from each site were collected for iron and iron isotopes, gases, dimethyl sulfide, temperature (measured on the spot) and salinity, and biology (algae and bacteria). Additional samples of bottom sea ice were obtained from blocks cut in the ice near Cape Evans and off Cape Barne where there was a thick carpet of diatoms and associated biota at the bottom of the ice. Further samples were obtained of the under-ice community and the sediments below the ice near Cape Evans including a time series of under ice samples collected about a week apart from each other.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, salinity, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, ice temperature, thermistors, antarctica, field investigation, refreezing, sea ice, amd, nz, amd, mcmurdo sound, ice crack, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Zooplankton demography and trophic interactions in the sub-arctic North Atlantic. ABSTRACT: Title: Zooplankton demography and trophic interactions in the sub-arctic North Atlantic, and their coupling to physical oceanography: 40 years on from the NAO minimum This project will conduct a campaign of seagoing measurements in the Irminger Sea and adjacent areas to discover the relationships between oceanic circulation, the life cycle dynamics and demography of three key crustacean zooplankton (Calanus finmarchicus, Thysanoessa longicaudata and Meganyctiphanes norvegica) and the structure and productivity of the pelagic food web. The impact of climate variability on these relationships will be examined by means of a comparative analysis of the data collected during the campaign with comparable measurements made in 1963 during the NORWESTLANT surveys, and with data from the Continuous Plankton Recorder surveys.. KEYWORD: continent, british isles, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, irminger sea, arthropods, ecological dynamics, north atlantic ocean, calanus finmarchicus, meganyctiphanes norvegica, marine productivity, global ocean ecosystem dynamics, igbp, food-web dynamics, thysanoessa longicaudata, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, igbp, europe, international geosphere-biosphere programme, crustacean, united kingdom, pelagic habitat, zooplankton, earth science, secondary production, usa, nasa, northern europe, biosphere, population dynamics, ecosystem functions, ocean, species, population interactions, oceans, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, globec, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton collected with High speed plankton collector by 13th CHINARE_SHPC in 1996-1997. ABSTRACT: 26 hi-speed sapmles were collected from the Southern Ocean. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Sviny mooring S1. ABSTRACT: Moored rig at Sviny observing current and some other parameters. KEYWORD: ocean currents, northward_sea_water_velocity, salinity, sea_water_speed, direction_of_sea_water_velocity, north atlantic ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, velocity, pressure, arctic, no, eastward_sea_water_velocity, ipy, ocean, oceanography, temperature, oceans, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: BIGFOOT LAND COVER SURFACES FOR NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICAN SITES, 2000-2003. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The BigFoot project gathered data for nine EOS Land Validation Sites located from Alaska to Brazil from 2000 to 2003. Each site is representative of one or two distinct biomes, including the Arctic tundra; boreal evergreen needleleaf forest; temperate cropland, grassland, evergreen needleleaf forest, and deciduous broadleaf forest; desert grassland and shrubland; and tropical evergreen broadleaf forest. These surfaces were produced from Landsat ETM+ imagery to explicitly characterize the land cover at the BigFoot Sites to provide validation of the MODIS land cover product. The land cover scheme is consistent with the categories defined by the MOD12 IGBP (http:  geography.bu.edu landcover userguidelc index.html) strategy. Each BigFoot land cover product covers approximately a 7 x 7 km extent and consists of the land cover surface image in standard geotiff format, an accompanying text file which provides metadata specific to the image (such as projection, data type, class names, etc), and associated auxiliary and world files. BigFoot Project Background:Reflectance data from MODIS, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer onboard NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite Terra (http:  landval.gsfc.nasa.gov MODIS index.php), is used to produce several science products including land cover, leaf area index (LAI) and net primary production (NPP). The overall goal of the BigFoot Project was to provide validation of these products. To do this, BigFoot combined ground measurements, additional high resolution remote sensing data, and ecosystem process models at nine flux tower sites representing different biomes to evaluate the effects of the spatial and temporal patterns of ecosystem characteristics on MODIS products. BigFoot characterized up to a 7 x 7 km area (49 MODIS pixels) surrounding the CO2 flux towers located at each of the nine sites. We collected multi-year, in situ measurements of ecosystem structure and functional characteristics related to the terrestrial carbon cycle. Our sampling design allowed us to examine scales and spatial pattern of these properties, the inter-annual variability and validity of MODIS products, and provided for a field-based ecological characterization of the flux tower footprint. BigFoot was funded by NASA's Terrestrial Ecology Program.. KEYWORD: konz, alaksa, manitoba, leaf area index, echo, lai, temperate mixed forest, north america, massachusetts, south america, cropland, land cover, validation, modis, barrow, metl, metolious, tapa, land use, land cover, tallgrass prairie, harvard forest lter, kansas, sevi, temperate needleleaf forest, canada, earth observing system data information system, tapajos, landsat-7, continent, tund, brazil, bigfoot, illinois, vegetation, sevilleta lter, harv, agro, otter, eosdis, earth science information partners program, park falls, enhanced thematic mapper plus, konza prairie, wisconsin, nobs, etm+, boreal forest, earth science, land surface, usa, nasa, arctic tundra, bondville, esip, desert, new mexico, oregon cascades, boreas, cheq, tropical broadleaf evergreen forest, 
TITLE: Sedimentary Denitrification Rates from the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort Seas. ABSTRACT: This data set contains the sedimentary denitrification rates from the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort Seas obtained during August-September 1992, and rates obtained in the Beaufort Sea off Pt. Barrow, Alaska, under late wintertime conditions (March 1993). The estimates made during August-September were based on both deployments of an automated in-situ benthic flux chamber tripod and on pore water chemical profiles from cores analyzed aboard the R V Alpha Helix. Wintertime observations were obtained using scaled-down versions of the in-situ benthic flux chamber that were deployed through land-fast ice. The complete results are published in Devol, A.H., L.A. Codispoti, and J.P. Christensen, 1997. Summer and winter denitrification rates in western Arctic shelf sediments. Continental Shelf Research 17 (9): 1029-1050.. KEYWORD: nsidc, dissolved oxygen, arctic ocean, oce9103384, opp-9114287, sediment corers, arctic, ammonia, usa, noaa, arctic system science, arctic shelf, oce-9301423, particle flux, squeeze cores, oxygen, north pacific ocean, inorganic carbon, benthic flux measurements, ocean chemistry, arctic system science data coordination center, oce-9116275, arcss060, office of polar programs, national science foundation, sediment traps, north pole, ships, ocean, nitrogen budgets, oceans, salinity, density, dissolved gases, geographic region, chukchi sea, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, sea floor, ammonium, nitrate, oce9116275, usa, nsf, pore water sampling, marine sediments, r, v alpha helix, dissolved inorganic carbon, bering sea, polar, vertical location, salinity, oce9301423, nitrogen, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, adcc, sedimentary denitrification rates, arctic system science, ocean-atmosphere-ice interactions, opp9114287, flux tripod, national science foundation, sediment chemistry, hemipelagic sediments, point barrow, oce-9103384, arcss, oaii, 
TITLE: Impacts of climate change on Antarctic vascular plants: warming and UV-B radiation. ABSTRACT: Our research examined the influence of ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) and warming on the performance of Antarctic flowering plants (i.e. Deschampsia antarctica, Antarctic hairgrass and Colobanthus quitensis, Antarctic pearlwort). Our research endeavors fell into the following categories: 1) We conducted a long-term field experiment at Stepping Stones, near Palmer Station, in which we reduced levels of UV radiation and raised air temperatures around naturally growing Deschampsia antarctica and Colobanthus quitensis plants for four consecutive growing seasons. We examined plant responses to these manipulations by assessing photosynthesis, vegetative growth, cover, and sexual reproduction. At the end of this experiment, we collected plant, soil and litter samples, and examined treatment effects on plant biomass production, litter accumulation, soil properties, and microarthropod populations. 2) Single growing-season experiments were also conducted at Stepping Stones, primarily aimed at examining the influence of UV-B radiation on plant growth processes and concentrations of UV-screening compounds in leaves, and soil seed banks. 3) We also conducted a more intensive short-term experiment at Palmer Station, in which we placed potted plants under UV-B transparent or UV-B absorbing filters from November through late December, corresponding to the ozone depletion enhanced UV-B season. We assessed the influence of ambient UV-B during the ozone depletion period by examining UV-screening compound concentrations, and rates of photosynthesis, plant growth and DNA damage. 4) To quantify the short-term UV-B responses of these species under more controlled conditions, we examined the UV dose response of DNA damage and screening compound concentrations in these species in growth chamber studies at our home institution. 5) We examined the temperature response of antarctic plants, by characterizing the photosynthetic and respiratory responses of naturally growing plants to temperature at Palmer Station. We also characterized their long-term, or acclimation, responses to rising temperatures, in terms of photosynthesis, respiration and growth, in a series of growth chamber experiments.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, uv-b, biological classification, evolutionary adaptation, alpine, tundra, respiration rate, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, soil depth, photosynthesis, carbon, phosphorus, vegetation cover, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, insects, antarctica, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, primary production, islands, litter characteristics, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, continent, animals, invertebrates, soil respiration, vegetation, range changes, decomposition, angiosperms (flowering plants), nutrients, biomass dynamics, species competition, hexapods, plants, species recruitment, soils, polar, amd, us, biomass, soil texture, pigments, nitrogen, community dynamics, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, population dynamics, trophic dynamics, ultraviolet radiation, species, population interactions, leaf characteristics, 
TITLE: ARCSS-LAII 1996 Aircraft Radiometric Data. ABSTRACT: During the summer of 1996, radiometric data over the Kuparuk River basin on the North Slope of Alaska were collected using the NOAA Long-EZ and Cessna 206 light aircraft. The area covered runs from north to south along the 148 degrees 55 minutes and 149 degrees 30 minutes lines of west longitude from approximately the Arctic Ocean (70.5 degrees N) to the foothills of the Alaskan Brooks Range (68.5 degrees N). Reflected spectral radiance was measured using an Exotech Model 100A Four Channel Radiometer, and recorded at 1 second intervals (1Hz) as digital counts (NOAA Long EZ) or analog voltages (Cessna 206). The digital counts were converted to voltages, and then all voltages were converted to radiance values. The data files are in tab-delimited format.. KEYWORD: nsidc, nsf, opp9216109, reflected spectral radiance, surface radiative properties, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, arcss009, ndvi, opp-9318527, radiometers, polar, reflectance, arctic system science data coordination center, aircraft, earth science, ceos, opp9318527, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, opp-9216109, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Data set of zooplankton investigation collocted with 52GG by 11th CHINARE in 1994-1995. ABSTRACT: 43 of 52GG planktonic samples were collected from Southern Ocean.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, geographic region, 
TITLE: Pacific Alkenone Sea Surface Temperature Reconstruction. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Marine sediments from the Chilean continental margin are used to infer millennial-scale changes in southeast Pacific surface ocean water properties and Patagonian ice sheet extent since the last glacial period. Our data show a clear "Antarctic" timing of sea surface temperature changes, which appear systematically linked to meridional displacements in sea ice, westerly winds, and the circumpolar current system. Proxy data for ice sheet changes show a similar pattern as oceanographic variations offshore, but reveal a variable glacier-response time of up to ~1000 years, which may explain some of the current discrepancies among terrestrial records in southern South America. This data set is the Alkenone-based Sea Surface Temperature Reconstruction. Alkenone data is from ODP Site 1233.. KEYWORD: continent, paleo start date 50,000 ybp, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, patagonian ice sheet, ocean temperature, sst reconstruction, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, sea surface temperature reconstruction, pages, ocean, lake records, quaternary, south america, sea surface temperature, climate change, polar, paleoclimate reconstructions, macrofossils, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, paleo stop date 8000 ybp, alkenone, ocean, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: Northern Hemisphere Storm (Cyclone) Intensity, 1924-1938 (DSI-9628). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Northern Hemisphere Storm (Cyclone) Intensity is historical digital data set DSI-9628, archived at the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). The dataset is for the 15 year period 1924 through 1938. The part of the Northern Hemisphere used in this data is outlined by the following Marsden squares: (numbers are inclusive) 074-082, 109-117, 140-153, 176-190, 214-226, 248-252 and 284-288 in the North Atlantic; and 093-097, 121-132, 157-167, 194-203, 233-235 in the North Pacific Ocean. The following parameters are given for each low pressure area occuring within the geographic boundaries outlined above: Year, month, day, location (by Marsden square number), central sea level pressure (mb) are given; and then for each of the four directions North, East, South and West, the pressure difference from the central pressure (mb) and wind force (Beaufort Force) are given. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: data set CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, western asia, coastal stations, usa, noaa, anticyclones, cyclones, buoys, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, differential pressure, north pacific ocean, africa, surface pressure, atmospheric phenomena, anemometers, east asia, barometers, atmospheric winds, ships, ocean, middle east, oceans, ocean pressure, gosic, chukchi sea, continent, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, earth science information partners program, wind vanes, northern africa, g3os, , aneroid pressure sensor, europe, barents sea, surface winds, ocean winds, pacific ocean, norwegian sea, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, atmospheric pressure, north sea, esip, atlantic ocean, storms, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Turbulent Energy Dissipation Rate Data from the MAP WINE Experiment at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). ABSTRACT: This data set contains measurements of turbulent energy dissipation rate at a 75 km height, scale=1 km recorded at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean) and carried out under the MAP WINE Project. The estimates of turbulent energy dissipation are derived from the rate of dispersion of the dipole cloud produced at approximately 75 km (mesosphere). Data includes 25 estimates of the horizontal component of turbulent energy dissipation for Heiss Island and 27 estimates for Volgograd. The MAP WINE (Middle Atmosphere Program Winter in Northern Europe) was one of the MAP projects scheduled for Fall-Winter 1983-1984. The aim was to coordinate observational studies of the high-latitude European middle atmosphere in winter, leading to an improved understanding of the winter variability structure, motions, and composition.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, turbulent energy dissipation, arctic, ionosphere, middle atmosphere program, winter in northern europe, russia, map, wine, mesosphere, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, vertical location, polar, earth science, usa, nasa, turbulence, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, ocean, climatology, upper air, geographic region, 
TITLE: Marine Reservoir Effect, Northern North America and Greenland - Radiocarbon Dates on Live-harvested, Pre-bomb-testing Marine Molluscs. ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of an Excel spreadsheet listing 265 radiocarbon dates of marine molluscs located in northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland. The measurements are taken to determine the effects of the marine reservoir in order to adjust the data. The samples are composed of molluscs demonstrating contamination from nuclear weapons.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Neogene Ice Streams and Sedimentary Processes on High-Latitude Continental Margins. ABSTRACT: The evolution of continental margins from temperate to polar conditions is still poorly known. There are increasing evidences collected in the Arctic and Antarctic margins that the high sediment input from ice streams produces a phase of margin instability, including catastrophic collapses, before a long lasting equilibrium is reached. The Arctic margins can be regarded as younger, unstable counterparts of mature polar Antarctic margins that began to evolve in the Oligocene-Miocene. We propose an integrated geophysical and sedimentological approach to an Arctic ice stream dominated depositional system from inner shelf to deep sea in order to reconstruct its evolution since pre-glacial times (prior to the Late Pliocene). We chose the relatively small glacial depositional system on the Southern Svalbard margin because it is located in a highly climatically sensitive area of the Northern Hemisphere (narrow gateway to the Arctic ocean), with a small ice catchment and a fairly well known glacial history on land. We propose a 45 days-long cruise on the BIO Hesperides to undertake a full multibeam bathymetric survey of the glacial depositional system, which includes areas of known, but not well-studied slope instability phenomena. Shallow seismics (TOPAS) will provide acoustic facies characterization. Deeper penetration, intermediate resolution multichannel seismic reflection profiles will provide the architectural evolution of the margin using ties to nearby ODP-DSDP holes. The project includes a plan for documentation and dissemination of results through TV and audiovisual products. El conocimiento sobre la evolucin de los mrgenes continentales de condiciones templadas polares es todava escaso. Cada vez hay ms evidencias, recogidas en los mrgenes rticos y antrticos, de que el alto aporte sedimentario incluido por las corrientes de hielo (ice streams) produce una fase de inestabilidad del margen que comporta colapsos catastrficos. Esto sucede recursivamente hasta que se alcanza de nuevo un equilibrio duradero. Los mrgenes rticos pueden ser calificados como jvenes e inestables en comparacin con los mrgenes antrticos, ms maduros, que desde el Oligoceno-Mioceno ya comencaron su evolucin. Proponemos un estudio integrado, tanto geofsico como sedimentolgico, de un sistema deposicional rtico, desde la plataforma interna hasta la llanura abisal, dominado por una corriente de hielo, con el objetivo de reconstruir su evolucin desde tiempos pre-glaciales (con anterioridad al Plioceno superior). Se ha elegido un sistema deposicional glaciar relativamente pequeo en el margen meridional de las Islas Svalbard porque est situado en un rea climticamente muy sensible del hemisferio norte (con conexin restringida con el ocano rtico). Este sistema deposicional tiene un rea de captacin de hielo de tamao pequeo y una historia glacial bien conocida en tierra. Proponemos una campaa oceanogrfica de 45 das de duracin a bordo del BIO Hesprides, o equivalente, para obtener cobertura total de batimetra de multihaz del sistema deposicional glaciar, que incluye reas de conocida, aunque no bien estudiada, inestabilidad sedimentaria. La caracterizacin del recubrimiento sedimentario superficial se llevar a cabo mediante perfiles de ssmica de muy alta resolucin (TOPAS). La evolucin de la arquitectura del margen se estudiar mediante perfiles de ssmica de multicanal de resolucin media y su correlacin con sondeos ODP-DSDP cercanos. El proyecto incluye un plan para la documentacin y diseminacin de los resultados a travs de TV y otros productos audiovisuales.. KEYWORD: ice extent, sediment corers, arctic, seismic, noroeste mar barents, sea surface temperature reconstruction, terrigenous sediments, svalbard, sea level reconstruction, isotopes, sea ice, paleomagnetic data, solar forcing, insolation reconstruction, human dimensions, geological hazards, terrestrial hydrosphere, sediment composition, paleoclimate reconstructions, sur oeste de las islas svalbard, natural hazards, sedimentation, glaciers, ice sheets, bathymetry, seafloor topography, sedimentary textures, ships, ipy, sedimentary structures, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, sediments, microfossils, paleoclimate, continental margins, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, geotechnical properties, thermohaline circulation, international polar year, seafloor topography, snow, ice, coring, marine sediments, sea ice age, polar, storfjorden, earth science, cryosphere, coring devices, ice sheets, sediment transport, bathimetry, acoustic sounders, sediment chemistry, seismic reflection profilers, ocean circulation, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Earthtide Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica from March 1991 to February 1993. ABSTRACT: The Chinese Institute of Geodesy and Geophysics employed a Lacoste ET gravimeter (No.20) to carry out the measurements for two years at Zhongshan Station, East Antarctica.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, antarctica, zhongshan station, gravity, gravimeters, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Marine data sampler, bathymetry data: MRJ Inc.. ABSTRACT: The following text was abstracted from Bruce Gittings' Digital Elevation Data Catalogue: 'http:  www.geo.ed.ac.uk home ded.html'. The catalogue is a comprehensive source of information on digital elevation data and should be retrieved in its entirety for additional information. MRJ Inc. sell a variety of marine data. This includes a Marine Data Sampler which covers all the oceans. Two areas are presented in more detail; the outer banks of North Carolina and Monterey Canyon off California. The sampler comes in Arc Info format on UNIX or DOS format CD-ROMs. MRJ can provide customized marine data including bathymetry, ocean chemistry and climatological data. These data generally originate from government agencies. The resolution of bathymetry varies depending on geographic region. Global data are provided as points or 5-minute grids. MRJ can provide 15-second grid bathymetry for the US continental shelf. Sounding information is also available for many US coastal areas. Data are supplied on 1 2" tape and floppy disks.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, commercial, digital elevation model, arctic, continental shelves, dem, continental margins, united states of america, coastal areas, north america, seafloor topography, polar, models, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, bathymetry, seafloor topography, coastal processes, water depth, coastal elevation, ocean, bathymetry, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Daily Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Dataset of Zhongshan Station GPS tracking station system from 2002 to 2003. ABSTRACT: Zhongshan Station perennial satellite positioning tracking station is China's domestic satellite tracking network to the southern tip of the expansion of the Earth, both of China's satellite orbit determination or research, are very important to add, at the same time, China's participation in the window of the Antarctic cooperation. Antarctic geodesy research is based on the framework of the structure of SCAR (ICSU Antarctic Scientific Research Committee) was organized and implemented an international large-scale scientific research cooperation projects. The project began in 1992, conducted on an annual basis for 22 days the entire Antarctic GPS measurement battle together, our two stations since 1994 to participate. Its aims: (1) Measurement of the Antarctic plate quickly with the adjacent panels, as well as micro-plate faster faster the relative motion between the rate and direction of movement; (2) to identify the various internal Antarctic plate crust block the relative motion between; (3) reunification of the Antarctic, the vertical system of benchmarks to determine the Antarctic tide gauge stations of the elevation above sea level; (4) as a result of melting ice sheets and marine load caused by the change of the Antarctic lithosphere, such as vertical movement, "the interaction of global and Antarctic" respect scientific research. In late 1998 of China's Zhongshan Station in the Battle of the SCAR GPS observatories built a perennial GPS satellite tracking station, the purpose of obtaining long-term follow-up site, a large number of, the original GPS system observational data through scientific calculation and comparison, access to GPS tracking site position in space with time resulting trajectory for the Antarctic region, geodynamics, geophysical structure and study the Earth's shape to provide information and data; and the Antarctic region precision positioning control points to provide quality date and reliable data. At the same time, the station of observational data on the analysis of satellite tracking technology to improve the accuracy of China's satellite orbit determination are useful.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, control surveys, gps receivers, gravitational field, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gps, antarctica, global positioning system, amd, cn, amd, geographic region, reference systems, 
TITLE: ETOP05 Elevation Data for Areas Greater than 50 degrees North. ABSTRACT: ETOPO5 is a collection of several gridded elevation data sets, combined into a single, global coverage. The data sets are of low resolution and accuracy, and therefore are useful for only the most general descriptions of polar topography. ETOPO5 gridded elevation data for the Earth north of 50 degrees North were provided to NSIDC by the National Geophysical Data Center.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terrain elevation, arctic, north, sea floor, usa, noaa, usa, nsf, polar topography, seafloor topography, terrestrial hydrosphere, elevation, polar, vertical location, models, maps, topography, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, glaciers, ice sheets, bathymetry, seafloor topography, arcss016, bathymetry, oceans, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Virulence of Selected Salmonid-Pathogenic Bacteria in Arctic Char (Salvelinus alpinus). ABSTRACT: Arctic char are a very important commercial and sport fisheries salmonid species, particularly in northern geographic ranges such as northern US, Canada and in Scandinavian countries. Recently, interest in intensive culture of Arctic Char has increased in more southern geographic areas and where water temperatures are warmer. Presently, two commercial growers are culturing Arctic char in West Virginia. The Freshwater Institute, Shepherdstown, WV has begun projects to evaluate the feasibility for rearing Arctic char in recycle systems in southern regions. Information regarding the diseases affecting Arctic char, and of the susceptibilities of char to major infectious salmonid bacterial pathogens is very limited. Renibacterium salmoninarum has been detected and bacterial kidney disease was diagnosed in free ranging, wild populations in the Northwest Territories in Canada. Columnaris disease has been diagnosed in Finland; furunculosis is a significant disease problem in char in Sweden and Finland. Information was obtained from "http:  www.lsc.usgs.gov SPN.asp?StudyPlanNum=01068-07" The main web site for Leetown Science Center Research is at "http:  www.lsc.usgs.gov rescurrent.asp".. KEYWORD: arctic char, polar, biological classification, bacteria, archaea, arctic, earth science, salvelinus alpinus, ceos, geographic region, salmonid-pathogenic bacteria, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid Weekly Snow Cover and Sea Ice Extent Version 3. ABSTRACT: The Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid Weekly Snow Cover and Sea Ice Extent Version 3 product and Version 3.1 update combine snow cover and sea ice extent at weekly intervals from 23 October 1978 through 24 June 2007, and snow cover alone from 3 October 1966 through 23 October 1978. (Sea ice data were not available prior to 23 October 1978.) The data set is the first representation of combined snow and sea ice measurements derived from satellite observations for the period of record. Designed to facilitate study of Northern Hemisphere seasonal fluctuations of snow cover and sea ice extent, the data set also includes monthly climatologies describing average extent, probability of occurrence, and variance. Data are provided in the Northern Hemisphere 25 km equal-area grid (NSIDC Nl EASE-Grid). Snow cover extent is based on the digital NOAA-NESDIS Weekly Northern Hemisphere Snow Charts, revised by D. Robinson (Rutgers University) and regridded to the EASE-Grid. The original NOAA-NESDIS weekly snow charts are derived from the manual interpretation of AVHRR, GOES, and other visible-band satellite data. Sea ice extent is regridded to EASE-Grid from Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I Passive Microwave Data. Both NOAA and NASA provided funding for the production of this data set.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, advanced very high resolution radiometer, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, dmsp 5d-2, f11, ice, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, northern hemisphere, nimbus-7, snow cover, sea ice, noaa geostationary operational environmental satellites, terrestrial hydrosphere, goes, remote sensing, geostationary operational environmental satellite 7, earth observing system data information system, global change, snow, oceans, geographic region, special sensor microwave, imager, sea ice extent, global, smmr, eosdis, goes-7, noaa, nasa pathfinder, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, snow, ice, avhrr, gridded data, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, daac, nasa, snow extent, esip, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: Nunavut, Canada, Internet GIS Geoscience Data Compilation. ABSTRACT: The Nunavut Geoscience Data Compilation provides several geoscience data layers in a common coordinate system that may be accessed and manipulated in an OGC-compliant Internet GIS applet. This online geoscience compilation was initiated as a cooperative effort between the Canada-Nunavut Geoscience Office, the Geological Survey of Canada, and GeoArctic International Services Ltd. Development was undertaken under the GeoConnections Access program. The purpose of the project was to make general information about the geology of the area easier to obtain, to understand, and to use by providing online geoscience information to northern communities and the general public. The geoscience compilation is a seamless, multi-thematic integrated dataset. Geoscience data layers include bedrock geology, seismic survey lines, and geophysical data. Underlying this information is a topographic base with lakes, drainage, coastlines and elevation and bathymetric data. The number of data layers in the compilation is expected to grow over time. Potential applications include land-use planning and management, education and mineral exploration. All layers in the compilation layers may be loaded into the Internet GIS applet or they may accessed individually. The access interface uses the OGC WMS 1.1.0 protocol. The Internet GIS applet can be accessed through both Netscape and Internet Explorer Web browsers.1. To stimulate mineral exploration, effective land-use planning and management, and northern community capacity building. 2. To demonstrate the use of the OGC WMS 1.1.0 protocol. 3. To enable online use and delivery of geoscience data for Nunavut. 4. To enable direct access to an integrated geospatial data source z39.50s:  cgkn1.cgkn.net:210 Nunavut Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector and Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: meters Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1927 Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: 6378206.4 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 294.9786982. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, meteorites, minerals, geomorphology, natural resources, arctic, nunavut, faults, seismic surveys, marine, age determinations, northern hemisphere, bedrock, north america, stratigraphic sequence, plate boundaries, tectonics, petroleum, magnetic anomalies, polar, hydrology, hydrocarbons, earth science, ceos, geophysics, geodetics, gravity, igneous rocks, metamorphic rocks, plate tectonics, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, lithospheric plate motion, canada, cgdi, canada, geomagnetism, gravity, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Data of body length, maturity stage, body weight and stomach fullness of krill measured by 6th CHINARE in 1989-1990.. ABSTRACT: Data of The body length, body weight,maturity stage and stomach fullness of krill from the 18 antarctic sites.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, southern ocean, crustaceans, arthropods, zooplankton, arctic, earth science, ceos, biosphere, trawl, ships, ocean, amd, cn, amd, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, krill, geographic region, 
TITLE: Determination of natural Fe organic complexes in the surface waters of the Amundsen Sea. ABSTRACT: The distribution and biological availability of Fe is strongly controlled by its physical-chemical speciation within seawater, where colloids and Fe-organic complexes are dominant factors. In order to study the distribution and the biological availability of Fe the natural Fe organic complexes were determined in the surface waters of the Amundsen Sea (300 m). Methods Samples were collected using Go Flo bottles and filtered under ultra-clean conditions in flow benches (class 0). The concentration of iron binding ligands (organic compounds which strongly bind Fe) and their binding strength (conditional stability constant) were studied in 5 size classes here: unfiltered water, 0.2 m filtered water, < 1000 kDa (Stereapore, Mitsubishi-rayon Co. Ltd, Nishioka and al., 2000, 2005), < 100 kDa and < 10 kDa ultra-filtrated water (Sartorius, Vivaflow 50, Schlosser and Croot, 2008). The left-over fraction from the ultra filtrations (retentates) were also analyzed for dFe and ligand characteristics to ensure a mass balance calculation and validate the ultrafiltration method. The dissolved iron concentrations in all the size fractions (and retentates) were measured (see dFe measurement section) using a chemo luminescence method (FIA) with acidified samples (pH 1.8). Total iron concentrations will be measured 6-12 months after the acidification of the unfiltered sample. Ligand characteristics were determined by using a complexing ligand titration with addition of iron (between 0 and 10 nM of Fe added) in buffered seawater (mixed NH3 NH4OH borate buffer, 5 mM). The competing ligand 'TAC' (2-(2-Thiazolylazo)-p-cresol) with a final concentration of 10 M was used and the complex (TAC)2-Fe was measured after equilibration (> 15 h) by cathodic stripping voltammetry (CSV) (Croot and Johansson, 2000). The electrical signal recorded with this method (nA) was converted to a concentration of (TAC)2-Fe (nM). Subsequently, the ligand concentration and the binding strength were estimated using the non-linear regression of the Langmuir isotherm (Gerringa and al., 1995) and a newer "Leo" model currently built up (Gerringa et al, in prep). The voltammetric equipment consisted of a Autolab potentiostat (Type II and III, Ecochemie, The Netherlands), a mercury drop electrode (model VA 663 from Metrohm). All equipment was protected against electrical noise by a current filter (Fortress 750, Best Power). Sampling statistics 26 stations were sampled on this cruise. These included 14 profiles and 5 stations where different size fractions were analyzed after 4 filtrations with different filter sizes (0.2 m cut-off, 1000 kDa, 100 kDa and 10 kDa). In addition, 11 Fe Ligand experiments were analyzed. Special attention was given to determine the iron binding ligands before and after incubation with and without artificial ligands in these experiments, to look at the response of algae and the change of the ligand characteristics during the incubations. Preliminary results An average ligand concentration of 0.789 nEq was found on the NBP0901 cruise, varying from 0.2 and 1.6 nEq of Fe. Highest ligand concentrations were found at 10 m depth followed by a minimum at 25 m. Concentrations increased with depth to become rather constant at 200 and 300 m. Low Fe binding strength of the ligands was found at 10 and 25 m in the polynya suggesting freshly produced ligands by organisms (phytoplankton or bacteria) or by a change in the ligand content and characteristics due to the biologic activity (the pool of strong binding ligands may be removed or used). The ratio ligand dissolved iron (Fig. 38) clearly shows differences between the surface water and deeper samples. Very high ratios (10) were found in the surface waters of the Pine Island polynya due to the low dissolved iron concentration and high ligand concentrations. In the deep water (200 and 300 m) of the polynya and the circumpolar deep water upwelling in front of the PIG the ligand dissolved iron ratio was close to 1 indicating a saturation of the ligands by iron and the possibility for iron to be removed from the water column by precipitation.. KEYWORD: size fractionation, amd, nl, organic ligands, organic fe, 1000 kda, geotraces, cle-adcsv, static mercury drop electrode, unfiltered, trace elements, r, v nathaniel b. palmer, international polar year, polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, conditional stability constants, speciation, stripping voltammetry, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, south pacific ocean, oceans, iron, amd, geographic region, complexation, r, v nbp, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Ice Classification Data. ABSTRACT: ERS-1 Ice Classification Data is generated from geocoded low resolution SAR imagery. A simple lookup table is used to classify each pixel as multi-year ice, undeformed first year ice, deformed first year ice or new-ice smooth open water based on its normalized backscatter coefficient. Individual products cover a 100x100 km area and are available electronically or on 9-track or 8 mm media. Available CEOS formatted data products include: Ice classification images provide the ice type for each pixel in the image. Each product is about 1.4 Mbytes in size. Ice classification gridded products provide the fraction of each ice type for each cell on the 5km SSM I grid. Each product is about 50 Kbytes in size. Approval by NASA is required to obtain the data. Please contact ASF user services to become a NASA approved investigator.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, sar daac, arctic, radar backscatter, european remote sensing satellite-1, eosdis, ers-1, sea surface, earth science information partners program, ice types, sea ice, spectral, engineering, polar, vertical location, sar, earth science, cryosphere, idn_node gsfc, asf, usa, nasa, radar imagery, daac, synthetic aperture radar, radar, earth observing system data information system, ocean, asf daac, global change, oceans, esip, sar data, geographic region, 
TITLE: Ras Umm Sidd Coral Oxygen Isotope Data, NOAA NCDC WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Ras Umm Sidd bimonthly coral oxygen isotope data (coral core RUS-95). [Abstract] A 245-year coral oxygen isotope record from the northern Red Sea (Ras Umm Sidd Egypt, ~28 deg. N) in bimonthly resolution is presented. The mean annual coral d18O signal apparently reflects varying proportions of both sea surface temperature and d18Oseawater variability. In conjunction with instrumental observations of climate the coral record suggests for interannual and longer timescales that colder periods are accompanied by more arid conditions in the northern Red Sea but increased rainfall in the southeastern Mediterranean, whereas warmer periods are accompanied by decreased rainfall in the latter and less arid conditions in the northern Red Sea. A ~70-year oscillation of probably North Atlantic origin dominates the coral time series. Interannual to interdecadal variability is correlated with instrumental indices of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), the El Nino- Southern Oscillation (ENSO), and North Pacific climate variability. The results suggest that these modes contributed consistently to Middle East climate variability since at least 1750, preferentially at a period of ~5.7 years. The coral core was collected in the end of November 1995 in the northern Red Sea at Ras Umm Sidd (27 deg 50.9'N, 34 deg. 18.6'E) in the Ras Mohammed National Park near the southern tip of the Sinai Peninsula (Egypt), from a 2.6-m-high coral colony (Porites sp.) growing at a water depth of ~5.5 m. The average annual growth rate of the coral is 1 cm year. The average sampling resolution for oxygen isotope analysis is more than 6 samples per year. The coral chronology is constructed by setting the maximum d18O value in a given year equal to mid-February (consistent with the climatological minimum in sea surface temperature) and assuming a constant coral growth rate between February of every year. Therefore we interpolated linearly between these fixed points for further age assignments. The resulting values were interpolated linearly to six equally spaced values per year, providing a bimonthly resolution. The strong seasonal cycle in d18O was used to count annual layers in the coral, supported by the consistent density banding pattern of low-density band creation during winter and high-density band creation during summer. The coral record extends from fall 1750 to fall 1995. We assigned an age model error of at least 2-3 months to the coral chronology. In addition, we assigned an age model error of + -1 year to the interval 1924-1783 and an additional + -1 year to 1782-1750. Therefore the chronology is assigned a cumulative age model error of less than + -3 years at the bottom of the core.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, el nino southern oscillation, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, western asia, north atlantic oscillation, usa, noaa, climate teleconnections, paleoclimate, climate indicators, ras mohammed national park, coral oxygen isotopes, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, northern africa, pacific decadal oscillation, nao, igbp, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, africa, egypt, asia, earth science, ceos, enso, phanerozoic, red sea, paleo start date 350 ybp, ocean, middle east, coral deposits, pdo, geographic region, indian ocean, teleconnections, 
TITLE: Annual Peak Discharge and Stage of US Surface Water; USGS. ABSTRACT: Originally available as hard copy publication, the Annual Peak Discharge and Stage of US Surface Water data will be made available to the public via the World Wide Web. The URL of the data set is to be announced. For more information, please contact the U.S. Geological Survey, Water Resources Division. The Peak Flow File (PKFIL) of the U.S. Geological Survey Water Resources Division contains data on Annual maximum (peak) streamflow (discharge) and gage height (stage) values at surface water sites in the U.S. These data are published annually on a state basis in water resources data reports.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, ground water, aedd, geology, rivers, stream habitat, ground water discharge, flow, united states of america, stream, north america, alaska, geography, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, lakes, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, us, polar, hydrology, earth science, stage height, ceos, groundwater, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, water, surface water, discharge, flow, alaska directory, water quality, rivers, streams, river, geographic region, usgs, aquifer, streamflow, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: A Checklist of Manitoba Spiders (Araneae) with Notes on Geographic Relationships. ABSTRACT: An annotated list of spider species is compiled from museum collections and several personal collections. This list includes 483 species in 20 families; 139 species are new provincial records. The spider fauna of Manitoba is compared with that of British Columbia, Quebec, and Newfoundland. Manitoba's spider fauna is composed of northern elements (arctic or subarctic species), boreal elements (holarctic or nearctic), and eastern elements (mainly species of the eastern deciduous forest), and a few that are regarded as introductions from abroad. Forty-three species reach the limits of their ranges here. This relatively small province (6.5% of the total land mass of Canada) contains 59% of the Canadian spider families and 37% of the Canadian species.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, personal collections, animals, invertebrates, arthropods, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, earth science, spider species, usa, nasa, spiders, biosphere, population dynamics, chelicerates, arachnids, museum collections, canada, north america, species, population interactions, geographic region, 
TITLE: State of the Climate - Global Analysis. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Global Analysis page is prepared by and available from the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). The page was first presented in 1998 as part of the State of the Climate Report. It is a framework that summarizes global observations of (surface and upper-air) temperature and precipitation data by placing the data into historical perspective. The Global Analysis page provides monthly, seasonal, and annual climate summaries, covering the topics: Global Surface Temperature, Global precipitation, Global Sea Surface Temperature, El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO), (Lower and Mid) Tropospheric Temperatures, (Lower) Stratospheric Temperatures, Northern Hemisphere Snow Cover Extent (seasonal), and Northern Hemisphere Sea Ice Extent (seasonal). PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition Fees, if applicable, are displayed on the web page for obtaining these data, and fees are also dependent on customer order specifications. Please contact NCDC for further information on fees and terms for retrieving these data.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, precipitation amount, el nino southern oscillation, atmospheric temperature, pacific, north american (pna) pattern, arctic, wind and circulation indices, north atlantic oscillation, ocean temperature, precipitation anomalies, usa, noaa, anticyclones, cyclones, nino1+2 index, precipitation, snow cover, sea ice, pacific decadal oscillation, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea surface temperature, rain, temperature anomalies, surface air temperature, maximum, minimum temperature, nino 3 index, oceans, gosic, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, altitude, ocean, sst indices, global, air temperature, arctic oscillation, climate indicators, geopotential height, earth science information partners program, nino3.4 index, tropopause, g3os, , snow, ice, nino 4 index, polar, earth science, stratopause, cryosphere, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, esip, teleconnections, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: JAMSTEC_Drifting Buoy Observation (J-CAD, POPS ). ABSTRACT: This data set contains drifting buoy measurements taken by the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) Compact Arctic Drifters (J-CADs). The J-CAD buoys drift with the ice pack, collecting navigational, atmospheric, and oceanographic measurements, and transmitting the data via satellite. Since 2000, investigators have been conducting operations of the J-CADs to measure the structure of upper-ocean currents and water properties under the multi-year ice of the Arctic Ocean for a better understanding of the role the Arctic Ocean plays in global climate.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, air temperature, buoys, conductivity, sea surface temperature, surface winds, polar, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, ocean, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Nitrogen and Carbon Isotope Data from the Central Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Nitrogen and Carbon Isotope Data from the Central Arctic Ocean Core Locations: Core PS2163-1, 8614.5'N, 5912.9'E, 3040m Core PS2170-4, 8735.8'N, 6053.7'E, 4083m Core PS2178-4, 8801.3'N, 15935.1'E, 4008m Core PS2185-4, 8730.0'N, 14428.9'E, 1051m Total organic carbon (TOC) and carbonate values, and nitrogen and carbon isotope values of four multicorers from the central Arctic Ocean Data files contain Core name, Depth (cm), TOC (%,), Carbonate (%), 13 C isotopes (per mil), 15 N isotopes (per mil) Precision: TOC and Carbonate values ( 1.2%, 1 standard deviation), Carbon and nitrogen isotope values (0.3 per mil, 1 standard deviation). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, d15n, toc, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, pages, ocean, lake records, isotopes, quaternary, carbonate, organic carbon, total organic carbon, polar, stable isotopes, ocean chemistry, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, nitrogen isotopes, d13c, ocean, paleo start date 20 ka, oceans, paleo stop date 0 ka, geographic region, carbon isotopes, central arctic ocean, 
TITLE: Planktic Foraminifer Census Data from Northwind Ridge Core 5 Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: Abstract: The U.S. Geological Survey recovered 9 piston cores from the Northwind Ridge in the Canada Basin of the Arctic Ocean from a cruise of the USCGC Polar Star during 1988. Preliminary analysis of the cores suggests sediments deposited on Northwind Ridge preserve a detailed record of glacial and interglacial cycles for the last few hundred-thousand to one million years. This report includes quantitative data on foraminifers and selected sediment size-fraction data in samples from Northwind Ridge core PI-88AR P5. Purpose: These foraminifer data will be the basis for future interpretive studies of the climate history of the Arctic Ocean.. KEYWORD: microfossils, solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, sediment corers, arctic, paleoclimate, canada basin, north america, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, tectonics, marine sediments, sediment composition, polar, stress, paleoceanography, sediment meters, earth science, ceos, sedimentary rocks, northwind ridge, sediment transport, foraminifera, ocean, canada, oceans, rocks, minerals, geographic region, bioturbation, sediments, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: The Global Maritime Boundaries Database (GMBD) CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: The Global Maritime Boundaries Database (GMBD) CD-ROM brings together the claims, limits and boundaries of the world with detailed attribution and documentation so they can be queried and viewed using GIS software. Included in the GMBD are: territorial seas; contiguous, joint development, fishing, and economic zones; potential claim median line solutions, disputed areas, boundary status; and much more. It will be your standard reference for quick access to vital, specific boundary information. General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems had created an interactive CD-ROM that makes these global maritime boundaries data commercially available. General Dynamics started building and maintaining a global environmental GIS in the 1980s to address the research needs of its clients. Until now, graphical portrayal of the claims or agreed boundaries has not been readily available to those involved in marine activities. Third party publishers of claims and boundaries data do not include graphics, portray only one boundary per graphic, or limit their graphics to only the agreed boundaries. The database is key reference tool for manual or automated analyses and can be applied to a vast array of specialty areas including defense, hydrographic surveying, offshore oil and gas exploration, fisheries, telecommunications, marine minerals mining, defense, salvage, shipping, construction, pollution, marine scientific research, marine archaeology, recreation, ocean law, academia, and journalism.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, economic zones, unilateral claims, arctic, western asia, western pacific ocean, pollution, platforms, boundary surveys, pipelines, academia, mopu, shipping, north america, fpso, arcview, gmbd, boundaries, human dimensions, baltic sea, caribbean sea, east china sea, contiguous zones, new directions in the law of the sea, north pacific ocean, national governments, arabian sea, international maritime boundaries, mining, aral sea, southcentral asia, fishing zones, gis data, red sea, hudson bay, ocean, canada, gulf of mexico, economic resources, political divisions, amd, geographic region, salvage, explorations, overlapping claims, indian ocean, continent, north atlantic ocean, sea of japan, limits in the seas, military zones, persian gulf, telecommunications, mediterranean sea, united states of america, multilateral agreements, defense, marine minerals, construction, global maritime boundaries database project, law of the sea bulletin, recreation investors, offshore oil and gas, south china sea, marine archaeology, bering sea, polar, amd, us, sea of okhotsk, southern ocean, legal (state and national issues), pacific ocean, great lakes, development zones, asia, earth science, fps, ceos, usa, nasa, disputed claims, administrative divisions, marine scientific research, caspian sea, median lines, hypothetical claims, hydrographic surveys, north sea, fisheries, atlantic ocean, maritime claims reference manual, territorial seas, yellow sea, black sea, 
TITLE: Landsat-7 Level-0R WRS-Scene V002. ABSTRACT: The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite on April 15, 1999, marks the addition of the latest satellite to the Landsat satellite series. The Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) Program launched the first of a series of satellites (ERTS 1) in 1972. Part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Earth Resources Survey Program, the ERTS Program and the ERTS satellites were later renamed Landsat to better represent the civil satellite program's prime emphasis on remote sensing of land resources. Landsat satellites 1, 2, and 3 carried the multispectral scanner (MSS) sensor and experimental return beam vidicon cameras. The Landsat-4 satellite carried the MSS and thematic mapper sensors as does the still currently flying Landsat-5 satellite. The sixth satellite in the Landsat series was unsuccessfully launched and did not achieve orbit. The Landsat-7 satellite carries the enhanced thematic mapper plus (ETM+) sensor. The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite is part of an ongoing mission to provide quality remote sensing data in support of research and applications activities. Landsat-7 ETM+ sensor data are framed into approximately 183-kilometer by 170-kilometer increments or scenes. The nominal centers for the Landsat-7 scenes map to a global notation system called the Worldwide Reference System (WRS), using Path and Row designators that equate to the satellite's 233-orbit cycle (i.e., the same orbit cycle used for Landsat satellites 4 and 5). The scenes are referred to as WRS scenes. Landsat-7 level-0 data are in their raw form. Calibration parameters, though provided in a calibration parameter file, are not applied. Level-0 data use standard HDF structures. Currently, data are distributed at the single WRS-scene granule level. Distribution of subintervals and partial subintervals is pending. Landsat ETM+ data are distributed in accordance with the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-555, as amended, and related contractual agreements. Landsat ETM+ data also are collected by foreign receiving stations. Purchasers are subject to individual foreign distribution site policy and pricing directives.. KEYWORD: emissivity, arctic, visible radiance, nasa, esip, north america, imagery, south america, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, land cover, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, usgs, eros, land use, land cover, remote sensing, australia, antarctica, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, central america, amd, geographic region, usgs, g3os, usa, usgs, landsat-7, continent, visible imagery, infrared imagery, lp daac, global, eosdis, greenland, enhanced thematic mapper plus, satellite, reflected infrared, europe, vertical location, polar, tems, amd, us, etm+, reflectance, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, landsat, 
TITLE: Data set of the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 6th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1989 1990. ABSTRACT: From November of 1989 to April of 1990, we surveyed the ocean surface temperature and salinity in the cruise of the 6th Antarctic Scientific Expedition of China.Total 161 sites were investigated.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, salinometers, ctd, ships, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, thermometers, amd, global ocean, salinity, density, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic All-Sky Image Measurement. ABSTRACT: All-sky camera (Prede, Model PSV-100) was placed on the roof-top of Rabben Station in Ny-Alesund, Svalbard and acquires all-sky color images on a continuous operation basis with a time resolution of a 10 min interval since 6 March 2005.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, aerosols, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, clouds, all-sky camera, asc, ipy, ocean, ny-alesund, svalbard, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: NICL Ice Cores Inventory (including GISP2) for Paleoclimate Data. ABSTRACT: The NICL Inventory describes the ice core holdings of the National Ice Core Laboratory (NICL), a facility for storing, curating, and studying ice cores recovered from the world's polar regions. It is jointly operated by the U.S. Geological Survey, the U.S. National Science Foundation, and the University of Colorado (USA) Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research. NICL is located in the Denver Federal Center complex (Lakewood, Colorado, USA). The information provided in this inventory is designed to allow research scientists a convenient listing of potential research samples. The inventory is available via FTP from NGDC (World Data Center A-Paleoclimatology) in cooperation with National Snow and Ice Data Center (World Data Center A-Glaciology). The NICLsite files provide a summary listing of core sites and samples curated by NICL. The individual drillsite files provide detailed information on the size and condition of individual samples stored at the NICL facility. The National Ice Core Laboratory (NICL) Inventory covers the period of record from the present back to approximately 160,000 YBP. Cores at NICL include LITTLE AMERICA V 1958 from ANTARCTICA, CAMP CENTURY cores from 1961 to 1966 from GREENLAND, BYRD STATION 1968 and 1971 from ANTARCTICA, DYE-3 of 1971 and 1979-81 and DYE-2 of 1977 from GREENLAND, MILCENT of 1973 from GREENLAND, CRETE of 1974 from GREENLAND, J-9 BERN of 1976 and J-9 of 1978 from ANTARCTICA, SITE A CORE1 of 1985 from GREENLAND, SITE A CORE 2 of 1985 from GREENLAND, GISP2 CORES B, C, D, E, G1, and G2 of 1989-1992 from GREENLAND, the VOSTOK core of ANTARCTICA, and the McMURDO DOME core of ANTARCTICA. For further information, contact Geoffrey Hargreaves or Joan Fitzpatrick. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Files available from NGDC about NICL ice cores include : NICLsite - tab-delimited ASCII file of site information on NICL cores, including the core number, SiteName, Location, Lat and Long, MinDepth, Max Depth, Elev., Core Dia., # Tubes in Inventory, Total Tubes, Drill Meth., and Tube Length NICLsite.xls files - Excel files containing the same site information 32 sitenamed inventory files containing detailed inventory information on each core, one or more files per core, including core quality, samples taken, %remaining, breaks, etc. The files will be updated periodically to reflect the changing inventory as new cores come in and old cores are consumed.. KEYWORD: ice core air bubbles, past global changes, igbp, arctic, ice, usa, noaa, gisp2, pages, north america, isotopes, j-9, vostok, ground stations, university of colorado, dust, glaciology, pleistocene, antarctica, dye-2, milcent, dye-3, core, snow, paleo start date, methane, amd, ice core, geographic region, ice cap, continent, alpine research, byrd station, cenozoic, co2, greenland ice core project, global, ngdc, paleoclimate, greenland, earth science information partners program, mcmurdo dome, paleo stop date, nicl, o18, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, polar, carbon dioxide, ice cores, grip, ftp, j-9 bern, earth science, camp century, ceos, phanerozoic, climate, ch4, crete, paleoenvironment, site a, little america, iaar, ice core records, esip, oxygen isotopes, 
TITLE: Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) Model Forcing and Data for the GEWEX Cloud System Study Data Integration for Model Evaluation (GCSS-DIME). ABSTRACT: The Surface Heat Budget in the Arctic Ocean (SHEBA) is a coordinated project to investigate the role of arctic climate in global change. The primary goals of SHEBA are: 1. To determine the ocean-ice-atmosphere processes that control the surface albedo and cloud-radiation feedback mechanisms over arctic pack ice, and to use this information to demonstrably improve models of arctic ocean-atmosphere-ice interactive processes, 2. To develop and implement models that improve the simulation of the present day arctic climate, including its variability, utilizing coupled global climate models This case study presents data from 1 May 1998 to 31 July 1998 and covers a region from 65N to 90N latitude and from 180W to 120W longitude. The data for this experiment is under Working Group 5 (Polar Clouds) of the GEWEX Cloud System Study (GCSS) is to improve the parameterization of precipitating convective cloud systems in global climate models (GCMs) and numerical weather prediction models through an improved physical understanding of cloud system processes.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, reason, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, atmospheric temperature, dmsp 5d-2, f14, surface radiative properties, arctic, cloud precipitable water, dmsp 5d-2, f11, visible radiance, dmsp 5d-2, f13, precipitation, ncep, thermal properties, noaa-14, ozone abundance, north america, alaska, gewex, spectral, engineering, humidity, international satellite cloud climatology project, infrared radiance, rawinsondes, ground-based observations, models, gewex cloud system study data integration for model evaluation, infrared wavelengths, relative humidity, surface pressure, wind speed, gpcp, cloud optical depth, thickness, cloud forcing, atmospheric water vapor, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-14, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, ships, visible wavelengths, ocean, canada, water vapor, global energy and water cycle experiment, limited area models, single column models, geographic region, gcss-dime, tiros operational vertical sounder, continent, altitude, sea level pressure, special sensor microwave, imager, clouds, air temperature, ozone, tovs, geopotential height, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, united states of america, precipitable water, isccp, avhrr, cloud top pressure, radiance, surface winds, polar, reflectance, cloud top temperature, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, earth science, oxygen compounds, land surface, sheba, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, ssm, i, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, surface temperature, global precipitation climatology project, esip, defense meteorological satellite program-f14, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: Observation Data of Weather Sience at the ground of ZhongShanStation ,Antarctic in 2002. ABSTRACT: The Antarctic Zhongshan weather station of China which was set up in Feb. 1989. It is located in Lars graceful hills,its station number is 89573. The antarctic Zhongshan weather station collects observation data four times a day (Beijing time02,08,14,20),and it records the change of the weather at any moment. Its observation items includes clouds,visibility,weather phenomenon,wind direction,wind speed,temperature,humidity,air pressure,sunlight,soil temperature,precipitation etc. It also observes atmospheric ozone amount and makes site weather forecast for science research.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, atmospheric temperature, arctic, mms, amd, cn, humidity, surface winds, polar, temperature anomalies, surface pressure, earth science, ceos, weather info, meteorological measurement system, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, zhongshan station, atmospheric winds, observatories, amd, geographic region, zhongshanstation, south pole, 
TITLE: Mega-Biome Maps for the Mid-Holocene and Last Glacial Maximum. ABSTRACT: Most dynamic vegetation models (DGVMs) simulate far fewer PFTs, and hence discriminate far fewer biomes, than the palaeodata allow. In order to facilitate direct comparison with model output, we have grouped the observed biomes into broader units (mega-biomes) on the basis of their structure and functioning. Mega-biomes include: - tropical forest - warm temperate forest - temperate forest - boreal forest - savanna and dry woodland - grassland and dry shrubland - desert - dry tundra - tundra This data set is also available from the Paleoclimate Modelling Intercomparison project - Phase II: http:  www-lsce.cea.fr pmip2 synth vegmaps.shtml. KEYWORD: intergovernmental panel on climate change, vegetation patterns, alpine, tundra, shrubland, scrub, western europe, paleovegetation, japan, holocene, arctic, vegetation species, global land, russia, north america, land records, savannas, africa, paleoclimate reconstructions, terrestrial ecosystems, northern europe, biosphere, paleo stop date 6000 ybp, plant phenology, biome 6000, canada, paleo start date 18000 ybp, radiocarbon, geographic region, pft, microfossils, continent, pollen, cenozoic, vegetation, plant functional types, paleoclimate modelling intercomparison project, paleoclimate, southern europe, pmip, grasslands, lgm, united states of america, vegetation reconstruction, quaternary, europe, polar, last glacial maximum, biogeography, asia, eastern asia, earth science, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, forests, mega-biomes, eastern europe, china, ipcc, central europe, leaf characteristics, plant characteristics, 
TITLE: Change and variability of Arctic Systems Nordaustlandet, Svalbard - "Kinnvika" (Sweden). ABSTRACT: DGPS data from surveys on the Svalbard ice cap Vestfonna spring 2008 1) kinematic profiles along the ridges and 2) static data from mass balance markers.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, kinnvika, gps receivers, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, glaciers, ice sheets, geodynamic stations, change and variability of arctic systems nordaustlandet, svalbard, ipy, ocean, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, barents sea, 
TITLE: National Solar Radiation Data Base Hourly Solar Data from Alaska, 1961-1990. ABSTRACT: The radiation data are derived from the National Solar Radiation Data Base (NSRDB) hourly data in synoptic format, and provided by the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). They contain hourly global horizontal solar irradiance, direct normal solar irradiance, and diffuse horizontal solar irradiance for 17 Solar and Meteorological Surface Observation Network (SAMSON) stations in Alaska from January 1, 1961 through December 31, 1990. The data are distributed with permission from NCDC.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, usa, nsf, earth science information partners program, united states of america, sky radiation, north america, alaska, net radiation, ground stations, g3os, , ground-based observations, polar, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, office of polar programs, national science foundation, solar irradiance, gosic, esip, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, arcss, nsf, opp, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Mineral Resources Data System Data Set. ABSTRACT: The Mineral Resources Data System (MRDS) data base, formerly known as the Computerized Resources Information Bank (CRIB), was developed by Dr. James A. Calkins and implemented by the U.S. Geological Survey in 1972. The MRDS compact disc-read only memory (CD-ROM) was developed from the MRDS data base to store, organize, and retrieve large amounts of data about mineral deposit sites, including mines, prospects, and occurrences. The MRDS data base became a reference tool for Federal, State, and nongovernment scientists wanting location and descriptive geologic information about mineral deposits. The MRDS data base is continuously updated with new information, and records are modified when applicable. An updated MRDS CD-ROM is issued periodically (i.e., no set schedule) with updated MRDS data base information. Currently, the MRDS CD-ROM contains a data base with 111,955 variable-length records of metallic and nonmetallic worldwide mineral resources (i.e., district and regional sites that were known) as of September 1, 1995. Each data base record contains descriptive information that includes deposit name, location, commodity, deposit description, geologic characteristics, production, reserves, potential resources, and references.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, infrared imagery, field surveys, global, geology, metallic resource, mineral resource, north america, south america, spectral, engineering, europe, ground-based observations, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, africa, cd-rom, usgs, eros, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, australia, land resources, antarctica, amd, geographic region, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Gas Hydrate Distribution. ABSTRACT: Geophysical gas hydrate distribution data from Geological Survey of Canada Project 970017. Working files contain a series of GSC Open File Reports, technical papers and maps showing occurrences of gas hydrates primarily on the basis of interpretations of geophysical well logs from Oil and Gas Exploration Wells.Work was conducted to assess gas hydrate distribution in Canada as a geologic hazard, possible energy source and a contributor of greenhouse gas to the atmosphere. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, continent, environmental geology, natural resources, engineering geology, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, marine, marine geology, north america, petroleum, polar, hydrocarbons, western arctic, arctic islands, earth science, ceos, geophysics, east coast canada, natural gas, fossil fuels, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, gas hydrates, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: IAI-FinalReport_IAI-Final Report_ISP3_018: Effects of species and functional diversity on ecosystem function. ABSTRACT: This dataset refers to the Final Report of the ISP round III project number 018, which has the name "Effects of species and functional diversity on ecosystem function: a comparison between arctic tundra and a temperate grassland shrubland system". This project has the following objectives: 1. To test the idea that a set of average parameters or processes for a functional type of plant species can substitute for detailed knowledge of the parameters or processes of all species in their effect on ecosystem functioning 2. To determine some of the ways in which species or functional-type composition affect ecosystem above-ground and below-ground processes at present. 3. To predict some of the ways in which species and functional-type composition may be affected by climate change, and how these alterations in the vegetation will feed back at the ecosystem level to modify its response to a shifting climate. 4. To test whether our results can be extrapolated to vegetation types which differ in taxonomic composition and species diversity but have similar functional types. The final report for this project can be downloaded from this page (See instructions below). Principal Investigator Sandra Diaz, sdiaz@com.uncor.edu, Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biologia Vegetal (CONICET-Universidad Nacional de Cordoba), Cordoba, ARGENTINA.. KEYWORD: continent, iai-dis, shrubland, scrub, alpine, tundra, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, inter-american institute for global change research, grasslands, earth science information partners program, united states of america, argentina, north america, alaska, cordoba province, south america, polar, earth science, terrestrial ecosystems, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystems, cordoba, iai-science-reports, esip, geographic region, plant characteristics, mission combo, 
TITLE: Landsat-7 Level-1 WRS-Scene V002. ABSTRACT: The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite on April 15, 1999, marks the addition of the latest satellite to the Landsat satellite series. The Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) Program launched the first of a series of satellites (ERTS 1) in 1972. Part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Earth Resources Survey Program, the ERTS Program and the ERTS satellites were later renamed Landsat to better represent the civil satellite program's prime emphasis on remote sensing of land resources. Landsat satellites 1, 2, and 3 carried the multispectral scanner (MSS) sensor and experimental return beam vidicon cameras. The Landsat-4 satellite carried the MSS and thematic mapper sensors as does the still currently flying Landsat-5 satellite. The sixth satellite in the Landsat series was unsuccessfully launched and did not achieve orbit. The Landsat-7 satellite carries the enhanced thematic mapper plus (ETM+) sensor. The launch of the Landsat-7 satellite is part of an ongoing mission to provide quality remote sensing data in support of research and applications activities. Landsat-7 ETM+ sensor data are framed into approximately 183-kilometer by 170-kilometer increments or scenes. The nominal centers for the Landsat-7 scenes map to a global notation system called the Worldwide Reference System (WRS), using Path and Row designators that equate to the satellite's 233-orbit cycle (i.e., the same orbit cycle used for Landsat satellites 4 and 5). The scenes are referred to as WRS scenes. Landsat-7 level-1R products contain data that have been radiometrically corrected, while level-1G products contain data that have both been radiometrically and geometrically corrected. Level-1R products are distributed in HDF format. Level-1G products are distributed in HDF, FAST-L7A, and GeoTIFF formats. Currently, data are distributed at the single WRS-scene granule level. Distribution of subintervals and partial subintervals is pending. Landsat ETM+ data are distributed in accordance with the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-555, as amended, and related contractual agreements. Landsat ETM+ data also are collected by foreign receiving stations. Purchasers are subject to individual foreign distribution site policy and pricing directives.. KEYWORD: emissivity, arctic, visible radiance, nasa, esip, north america, imagery, south america, spectral, engineering, infrared radiance, land cover, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, usgs, eros, land use, land cover, remote sensing, australia, antarctica, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, central america, amd, geographic region, usgs, g3os, usa, usgs, landsat-7, continent, visible imagery, infrared imagery, lp daac, global, eosdis, greenland, enhanced thematic mapper plus, satellite, reflected infrared, europe, vertical location, polar, tems, amd, us, etm+, reflectance, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, daac, landsat, 
TITLE: Global, Hemispheric, and Zonal Temperature Anomalies Derived from Radiosonde Records, in CDIAC Online Trends and NOAA ARL. ABSTRACT: Surface temperatures and thickness-derived temperatures from a 63-station, globally distributed radiosonde network have been used to estimate global, hemispheric, and zonal annual and seasonal temperature anomalies. The data were obtained from differences in height between constant-pressure surfaces at individual radiosonde stations. The pressure-height data before 1980 were obtained from published data in the "Monthly Climatic Data for the World". Since 1980, data was obtained from the "Climatic Data for the World" and the Global Telecommunication System Network received at the National Meteorological Center. All of the data are referenced to a 1958-1977 average. The data consists of the following: Global (90S-90N) North Polar (60N-90N) North Temperate (30N-60N) North Subtropics (10N-30N) Equatorial (10S-10N) South Subtropics (10S-30S) South Temperate (30S-60S) South Polar (60S-90S) Tropical (30S-30N) Northern Hemisphere (0-90N) Southern Hemisphere (0-90S) For each zone the data is expressed in degrees Celsius for winter (December-February), spring (March-May), Summer (June-August), and Fall (September-November) at 3 pressure levels (Surface - 100 mb, 100-50 mb, and 100-30 mb) for each year 1958-2002. The Angell global, hemispheric, and zonal temperature data is available from: http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov trends temp angell angell.html and from NOAA Air Resources Laboratory ftp:  gus.arlhq.noaa.gov pub climate angell_anoms Related data are available as Numeric Data Packages from CDIAC: http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov ndps ndp008.html Annual and Seasonal Global Temperature Deviations in the Troposphere and Low Stratosphere, 1958-2002 and http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov ndps ndp023.html Annual and Seasonal Global Variation in Total Ozone and Layer-Mean Ozone, 1958-1987 (1991). KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, south subtropics, greenhouse effect, arctic, zonal anomalies, ocean temperature, global, air temperature, usa, noaa, troposphere, north subtropics, equatorial, northern hemisphere, land surface temperature, radiosondes, eastern hemisphere, stratosphere, sea surface temperature, polar, vertical location, amd, us, temperature anomalies, surface air temperature, earth science, south temperate, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, antarctica, north temperate, global warming, ocean, land temperature, tropics, southern hemisphere, oceans, amd, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Arctic EASE-Grid Freeze and Thaw Depths, 1901 - 2002. ABSTRACT: This data set contains mean, median, minimum and maximum freeze and thaw depths for each year from 1901 to 2002 on the 25 km resolution Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grid (EASE-Grid) for areas north of 50 deg. Freeze and thaw depths are estimated using a variant of the Stefan solution using an edaphic factor and freezing or thawing indices as inputs. The edaphic factor is estimated based on different land surface types; the freezing and thawing indices are from Northern Hemisphere EASE-Grid annual freezing and thawing indices, 1901 - 2002 (Zhang, et al. 2005). Two ASCII files are available for each year for freeze depth and thaw depth, respectively. Each file is approximately 25.6 MB in size. In addition, there is one 10.5 MB ASCII file defining the latitude and longitude coordinates for each grid point. The data set is available via FTP as three compressed files.. KEYWORD: thaw depth measurements, continent, thawing degree-day, active layer, thaw depths, arctic, thawing index, usa, noaa, northern hemisphere, freezing index, thawing degree days, edaphic factor, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, antarctica, seasonal thaw layer, stefan solution, freeze depth, freeze, thaw depth, frozen ground, freezing degree days, amd, thaw depth, geographic region, 
TITLE: Panchromatic all-sky TV data. ABSTRACT: This is a Sino-Japan collaborative observation at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, which commenced in March 1995 (Principal Investigators: Prof. Natsuo Sato, National Institute of Polar Research and Dr. Huigne Yang, Polar Research Institute of China). The observation system comprises a HARPICON (High-gain Avalanche Rushing Amorphous Photoconductor) TV camera fitted with a fish-eye lens. A HARPICON tube utilizes an amorphous photoconductive selenium target within which an avalanche signal multiplication may be obtained under a high voltage. The exposure time of the observation is set to 2 seconds and a sensitivity of ~6 times higher than that of a conventional SIT tube is achieved. The all-sky TV data are originally recorded on video tapes in NTSC format, which are digitized into AVI files of 320*240 pixels.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, visible imagery, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, aurora, all-sky camera, geomagnetic indices, cameras, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, aurorae, magnetic anomalies, polar, images, panchromatic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, asc, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, geomagnetism, sun-earth interactions, amd, all-sky, geographic region, 
TITLE: Arctic surface temperature and pressure from Argos buoys. ABSTRACT: University of Washington Polar Science Center ARGOS buoy data for January-June and October-December 1987. This data is supplied by the National Snow and Ice Data Center. Dataset includes gridded surface temperature for 1979-1986 and pressure for 1979-1990.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, surface pressure, atmospheric temperature, usa, ncar, arctic, earth science, gridding methods, air temperature, geographic region, buoys, atmospheric pressure, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Clouds 5-Min L2 Swath 1km and 5km (Collection 004 and 005). ABSTRACT: MODIS was launched aboard the Aqua satellite on May 04, 2002 (1:30 pm equator crossing time) as part of NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) mission. MODIS with its 2330 km viewing swath width provides almost daily global coverage. It acquires data in 36 high spectral resolution bands between 0.415 to 14.235 micron with spatial resolutions of 250m(2 bands), 500m(5 bands), and 1000m (29 bands). MODIS sensor counts, calibrated radiances, geolocation products and all derived geophysical atmospheric and ocean products are archived at NASA Goddard DAAC and has been made available to public since April 2000. The level-2 MODIS cloud product consists of cloud optical and physical parameters. These parameters are derived using remotely sensed infrared, visible and near infrared solar reflected radiances. MODIS infrared channel radiances are used to derive cloud top temperature, cloud top height, effective emissivity, cloud phase (ice vs. water, opaque vs. non-opaque), and cloud fraction under both daytime and nighttime conditions. MODIS visible radiances are used to derive cloud optical thickness and effective particle radius and cloud shadow effects. Near infrared solar reflected radiance provides additional information in the retrieval of cloud particle phase (ice vs. water, clouds vs. snow). The shortname for this level-2 MODIS cloud product is MYD06_L2 and the principal investigators for this product are MODIS scientists Dr. Bo-Cai Gao ( gao@rsd.nrl.navy.mil) for cirrus cloud detection; Dr. Paul Menzel ( paulm@ssec.wisc.edu) for cloud top properties; and Dr. Michael King( king@climate.gsfc.nasa.gov) for cloud optical properties . The level-2 cloud product (MYD06_L2) consists of 46 gridded cloud parameters. These parameters are produced at a spatial resolution of either 1- km or 5-km (at nadir). Each MYD06_L2 product file covers a five-minute time interval. This means that for 5-km resolution parameters, the output grid is 270 pixels in width by 406 pixels in length. Every tenth granule has an output grid size of 270 by 408 pixels. For 1-km resolution parameters, the output grid is 1354 pixels in width by 2030 pixels in length and every tenth granule has an output grid size of 1354 by 2040 pixels. MYD06_L2 product files are stored in Hierarchical Data Format (HDF-EOS). Forty four of the 46 gridded cloud parameters are stored as Scientific Data Sets (SDS) within the file, the remaining two (band number and statistics) are stored as Vdata(table arrays). Approximately 288 files are produced daily. Nighttime files are smaller than their daytime counterparts since only cloud top properties are retrieved at night. Each daytime file is roughly 65.1 MB in size and each nighttime HDF file roughly 12.4 MB in size, and the total data volume is approximately 12.3 GB day. For browsing and extracting data from these files, some software are made available at the site. MYD06_L2 Data Category & Parameters Spatial & Temporal Resolution: latitude,longitude scan start time Solar and Sensor Viewing Geometry: solar zenith angle, solar azimuth angle sensor zenith angle, sensor azimuth angle Cloud Top Parameters (5km): cloud top pressure from IR retriev(daytime,nighttime,all) cloud top pressures from individual thermal band ratios cloud height retrieval method, tropopause height surface pressure cloud top temperature (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud effective emissivity (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud fraction (daytime,nighttime,all) cloud phase(daytime, nighttime, all) Cloud Optical Properties (1km): cloud optical thickness cloud water path effective particle radius effective particle radius difference Radiation Parameters: spectral cloud forcing cirrus reflectance surface type (emissivity based) Brightness Temperature Brightness Temperature Difference Quality Assurance Parameters: Processing flag for 5 km resolution cirrus reflectance flag for 1 km resolution quality assurance flag for 1 & 5 km resolution cloud mask for 1 & 5 km, radiance variance for thermal bands statistics for parameters at 1km resolution The MODIS Cloud Product will be used to investigate seasonal and inter-annual changes in cirrus (semi-transparent) global cloud cover and cloud phase with multispectral observations at high spatial (1 kilometer) resolution.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, cloud climatology, emissivity, cloud effective radius, modis cloud products, myd06, arctic, cloud precipitable water, eos, echo, open-source project for a network data access protocol, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, droplet size, aqua, earth observing system (eos), aqua, cloud altitude, spectral cloud forcing, modis, optical depth, thickness, contrail reflectance, cloud reflectance, cirrus reflectance, cloud water path, cloud optical depth, thickness, transmittance, cloud microphysics, cloud forcing, low cloud, water cloud, cloud height, brightness temperature, earth observing system data information system, global change, cloud phase, geographic region, opendap, atmospheric radiation, cloud extent, cloud ceiling, cloud emissivity, global, clouds, cloud vertical distribution, cloud fraction, cloud liquid water path, eosdis, earth science information partners program, droplet concentration, size, effective emissivity, cloud condensation nuclei, ice cloud, cloud optical depth, cloud top pressure, radiative flux, polar, cloud top temperature, reflectance, cloud types, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, cloud top height, thick cloud, usa, nasa, atmospheric emitted radiation, thin cloud, contrail, myd06_l2, cloud amount, frequency, cloud asymmetry, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, dods, cloud type, esip, cloud optical properties, high cloud, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Automatic Weather Station Data from Polar Ural (IGAN Glacier). ABSTRACT: AWS data from Polar Ural (IGAN glacier) for 18.07.2008-22.04.2009. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, automated weather system, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, international polar year, geographic region, aws, europe, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica,Year 2002. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and finally saved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, f layer, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, e layer, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ionogram, zhongshan station, radio wave reflection, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, ionospheric drift, ionosonde, amd, ground stations, geographic region, d layer, 
TITLE: Community-Oriented Data Collections for Northern Manitoba and Nunavut, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Community-Oriented Data Collections for Northern Manitoba and Nunavut consists of various topographic and geopolitical map files. These map files originate from various federal and provincial government departments, as well as public and private organizations. Data relates to both geographic and special interest communities in Northern Manitoba and Nunavut. To power sustainable solutions by engaging citizens of Northern communities in the process of community development. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster, Vector, Point Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, nunavut, human health, northern hemisphere, north america, boundaries, human dimensions, vertical location, polar, topography, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, land resources, administrative divisions, population, canada, cgdi, canada, infrastructure, economic resources, political divisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Yearly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: CANADA GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology canada.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Canada Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, barometric pressure, atmospheric temperature, temperature sensors, lter, arctic, solar flux, precipitation, spectral, engineering, humidity, soil temperature, thermal infrared, infrared wavelengths, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, temperature probes, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, wind, continent, shortwave radiation, outgoing shortwave radiation, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, soils, glacier, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, earth science, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, incoming longwave radiation, surface temperature, radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: Ice Draft and Ice Velocity Data in the Beaufort Sea, 1990-2003. ABSTRACT: This data set provides measurement of sea ice draft (m) and the movement of sea ice (cm s) over the continental shelf of the Eastern Beaufort Sea. The data set spans April 1990 to September 2003. The data set was acquired to assist in determining the character and recurrence of ice features hazardous to offshore industrial activity, specifically for the exploitation of hydrocarbon reserves and the impact of climate variability and change on the Beaufort Sea ice regime. Observations were made using two types of self-contained Upward Looking Sonar (ULS) moored near the sea floor: an Ice Profiling Sonar (IPS) used to obtain ice draft data and an Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) used to obtain the ice velocity data. The data are provided in ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, upward looking sonar, usa, noaa, beaufort sea, sea ice velocity, noaa, nasa pathfinder, sea ice draft, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, acoustic doppler current profiler, ocean, sea ice, sea ice drift, ice depth, thickness, ice velocity, oceans, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, adcp, 
TITLE: AMAP Data. ABSTRACT: AMAP(Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program)Database The AMAP catalogue contains information relating to the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme. AMAP is an international organization established in 1991 to implement components of the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy (AEPS). Now a programme group of the Arctic Council, AMAP's current objective is "providing reliable and sufficient information on the status of, and threats to, the Arctic environment, and providing scientific advice on actions to be taken in order to support Arctic governments in their efforts to take remedial and preventive actions relating to contaminants". Data URL: Information obtained from "http:  www.amap.no ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, contaminants, polar, arctic, earth science, gosic, geographic region, air quality, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Xue Long Ship NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 18th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Xue Long ship of the 18th Chinese Antarctic Research from 2001 to 2002.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, xue long ship, arctic, earth science, ceos, visible radiance, antarctica, ships, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: Canadian Coastal Information System (CIS). ABSTRACT: The Coastal Information System contains detailed information about the geomorphic form and the material composition of the coastal features for segments along the coast. These segments are based upon the division of shorelines from the 1:10,000 to 1:250,000 topographic base maps. The segmentation and attribution of the units was interactively conducted by a coastal geologist through the interpretation of aerial coastal videos and air photographs. The system has data for selected areas of Canada that have been identified to be vulnerable to sea level rise. The data for these areas are presented in map form using Transverse Mercator and Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) projections.This data is applied to shore-zone description and classification for assessment of coastal stability and hazards, environmental sensitivity and resource inventory. Potential applications are coastal management and planning. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, environmental geology, geomorphology, gcmd, engineering geology, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, none, coastal zone, northern hemisphere, north america, polar, anthropogenic, erosion, sedimentation, topography, earth science, land water interface, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, land resources, beaufort sea, landforms, coastal processes, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, seashore, shoreline, erosion, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: State of the Environment - Norway 2004. ABSTRACT: State of the Environment Norway ("http:  www.environment.no " provides the latest information about the state and development of the environment. The service presents environmental topics in a simple and easy-to-follow way and provides access to more detailed scientific presentations. SOE Norway contains information about legislation and international agreements, environmental targets, references and relevant links. In addition the latest data sets can be download. All information and all data in State of the Environment Norway have been quality checked. The Ministry of the Environment has assigned the production of State of the Environment Norway to the environmental authorities. The Norwegian Pollution Control Authority has the overall editorial responsibility. The content has been produced and quality checked by the respective environmental agencies. The Directorate for Nature Management is responsible for the topics on "biological diversity" and "outdoor recreation", while the Directorate for Cultural Heritage is responsible for the topic on "cultural heritage". The Norwegian Polar Institute has prepared the topic about "polar regions", and the Norwegian Pollution Control Authority is responsible for "water", "hazardous chemicals", "climate and ozone", "noise", "air pollution", "waste" and "international co-operation". The Norwegian Mapping Authority has provided most of the maps. GRID-Arendal has assisted in the development of State of the Environment Norway. Statistics Norway, the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, the Norwegian Institute for Air Research, the Norwegian Institute for Nature Research and the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research have supplied the service with data. Data includes: Air polloution - acid rain - ground level ozone - local air pollution Biological Diversity - animal and plant biodiversity - nature and land use Climate and Ozone - ozone layer - global mean temperature - GHG emissions - impacts Cultural Heritage - archaeological sites - arcitectural heritage - cultural environment - world heritage Hazardous Chemicals - dangerous substances (over 3000 cataloged) - endocrine disruption - regulations Noise Pollution Outdoor Recreation Polar Regions - polar climate - pollution - wildlife - Svalbard - geology, landscape, protected areas Waste - hazardous waste - waste and recycling - imports and exports Water Pollution - eutrophication - hazardous chemicals in coastal waters - ocean pollution - petroleum activities The SOE Norway data is available from "http:  www.environment.no ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, halons, arctic ocean, greenhouse gases, heavy metals, ecological dynamics, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, habitat conversion, fragmentation, environmental indicators, acid deposition, precipitation, coastal areas, sea ice, acid rain, aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial hydrosphere, industrialization, air quality, toxicity levels, nitrogen compounds, vegetation cover, natural hazards, land use, land cover, northern europe, sulfur oxides, biosphere, pollutants, ocean contaminants, atmospheric chemistry, global warming, landscape management, oceans, gosic, landscape changes, regional indicator species, contaminants, continent, co2, indicator species, nuclear radiation, tropospheric ozone, industrial emissions, marine ecosystems, freshwater ecosystems, so2, biodiversity functions, europe, polar, cfc, biomass, community dynamics, oxygen compounds, cryosphere, environmental impacts, meteorological hazards, dioxins, frost damage, norway, trace elements, trace metals, trace metals, kyoto protocol, soe, un, human dimensions, sulfur compounds, land cover, climate change, sulfur dioxide, visibility, trace gases, trace species, ecotoxicology, eutrophication, carbon monoxide, sea-ice extent, terrestrial ecosystems, deforestation, surface water, ecosystem functions, unep, grid, water quality, ocean, chlorofluorocarbons, cadmium, geographic region, health effects, toxic chemicals, mercury, vegetation, troposphere, ozone, biomass dynamics, wetlands, scandinavia, nox, water quality, water chemistry, emissions, vertical location, carbon dioxide, biodiversity, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, ipcc, rivers, streams, ecosystems, landscape, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: RADARSAT Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada, Lambert Conformal Conic, 750 Metres. ABSTRACT: The Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS), and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) have collaborated with contributions from RADARSAT International (RSI), to create an ortho-rectified RADARSAT-1 mosaic of Canada. Using CSA's RADARSAT data archive, ScanSAR Narrow B descending mode data were selected. The majority of the data, south of 60 degrees was acquired during the growing seasons of 1998 and 1999. The remaining data were collected during the winters of 1998 and 1999. A digital national mosaic has been produced at a 750m pixel spacing, in a Lambert Conformal Conic (LCC) projection. That data set is available here. Georeference Units : LCC E008 Projection : Lambert Conformal Conic Datum - Ellipsoid : NAD 83 - GRS 1980 Upper Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 10500000.000 N Upper Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 10500000.000 N Image Centre : 250000.000 E 8100000.000 N Lower Left Corner : -2600000.000 E 5700000.000 N Lower Right Corner : 3100000.000 E 5700000.000 N Pixel Size : 750.000 E 750.000 N Upper Left Corner : 177d17'32.31" W Lon 66d54'22.82" N Lat Upper Right Corner : 9d58'39.57" W Lon 62d25'50.45" N Lat Image Centre: 89d56'43.00" W Lon 62d46'47.18" N Lat Lower Left Corner: 122d54'49.00" W Lon 36d12'53.87" N Lat Lower Right Corner: 62d32'49.65" W Lon 34d18'05.61" N Lat True origin : 95d00'00.0000"W 0d00'00.0000"N 1st std parallel : 49d00'00.0000"N 2nd std parallel : 77d00'00.0000"NThe development of the RADARSAT-1 Ortho-rectified Mosaic of Canada was initiated to provide a unique synoptic view of Canada using data acquired from Canada's first Earth Observation Satellite, launched in November of 1995. It celebrates the fact that RADARSAT-1 has reached and passed its five year design life in orbit. The satellite continues to deliver imagery that has been proven effective in a wide range of applications including ice reconnaissance, disaster management, oceanography and agriculture. This digital product has been developed at a number of scales (technically pixel spacing) to allow a variety of users the ability to download and use this data. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: WGR 1980 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, satellite imagery, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, mosaic, spectral, engineering, radarsat-1, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, radar imagery, radar, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Cumulative Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Measurements of high amplitude low cycle fatigue of sea ice in conjunction with the characteristic length of sea ice, temperature and salinity profiles and acoustic emissions. ABSTRACT: The high amplitude low cycle fatigue properties of sea ice in situ at high strain were investigated by developing a cantilever system of sea ice beams and using hydraulic equipment to exercise these beams to determine the rheological properties of sea ice in situ. This allows the mechanical behaviour to be determined under a variety of various loading conditions and different ice types (i.e. very cold ice and warm ice). A published constitutive equation for sea ice relates stress, strain and strain rate and measurements were used to test the equations relevance for in situ ice in the hope that it may become used routinely to solve ice engineering and geophysical problems. The characteristic length of sea ice was determined by taking ice cores at various distances apart on an exponential scale (i.e. 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32....) to know if the properties of ice change over the length of a beam being tested and over an area where a large number of beams are being tested. Temperature and salinity profiles of the ice cores were collected also. Acoustic emissions were monitored in conjunction with the fatigue experiments to determine the nature of the failure of the ice and the relationship between stress and strain in a cantilever beam.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, strain rate, rheology, earth science, cryosphere, ice deformation, ceos, antarctica, field investigation, sea ice, amd, nz, amd, mcmurdo sound, sea ice strength, geographic region, 
TITLE: Chukchi Sea Hydrographic (CTD) Data from the R.V. Alpha Helix Cruise, September 1996. ABSTRACT: In an international collaborative effort, Japanese, Russian, and U.S. scientists collected hydrographic CTD (conductivity, temperature, density) samples in the Chukchi Sea north of the Bering Strait during the R.V. Alpha Helix cruise between 31 August and 27 September 1996. The CTD data were converted from the format used by the Institute for Marine Studies, University of Alaska Fairbanks, to standard Seabird format. The data collection contains values for water depth, pressure, temperature, potential temperature, conductivity, salinity, sigma-t, sigma-theta, fluorescence, transmissometer output, oxygen probe O2 concentrations, geopotential anomaly, dynamic height, specific volume anomaly, and buoyancy.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, arctic, oxygen probe, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, opp-9905947, hx194, arcss011, bouyancy, oceanographic cruise, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, conductivity, fluorescence, geopotential anomaly, bering strait, oxygen, north pacific ocean, ocean chemistry, opp-9630774, arctic system science data coordination center, sigma-theta, office of polar programs, national science foundation, pressure, ships, o2 concentrations, water depth, ocean, oceans, opp9905947, salinity, density, r.v. alpha helix, sigma-t, geographic region, chukchi sea, hydrographic samples, nsf, opp, nsf, specific volume anomaly, dynamic height, opp9630774, usa, nsf, temperature, ocean optics, bering sea, polar, salinity, density, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, potential temperature, adcc, transmissometer output, national science foundation, depth, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent L2 Swath 1km V001. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 2 swath product (MOD291) contains the following fields: Sea Ice by Reflective Characteristics, Sea Ice by Reflective Pixel Quality Assurance (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, Sea Ice by IST, Combined Sea Ice, Latitude, and Longitude. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: D. Federal Electoral Districts (1996 Representation Order) Reference Maps, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: This map shows the boundaries, names and codes of FEDs according to the 1996 Representation Order, on a background of major lakes and rivers. Insets show more detail for the congested areas on the map. The FED map was produced by Natural Resources Canada for Elections Canada. The dimensions of this map are approximately 28 cm by 79 cm (11 inches by 31 inches). Reference maps show boundaries, names and codes of standard geographic areas on a background of selected road and water features. Over 7,000 reference maps are available for most standard geographic areas for which Census data are tabulated and disseminated. For the 2001 Census, reference maps are available free on the Internet (www.statcan.ca), or they can be purchased through the nearest regional office in electronic format (PDF on CD-ROM) or paper format. Catalogue number for Internet: 92F0152XIE Catalogue number for CD-ROM: 92F0152XCE Catalogue number for Printed documents is: 92F0152XPE ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.This map shows the boundaries, names and codes of FEDs according to the 1996 Representation Order, on a background of major lakes and rivers. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, statistical areas, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, federal electoral districts, census agglomerations, handbooks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, geographical classification, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, classification, quebec, census divisions, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: North Pole Environmental Observatory PMEL CRREL 2000-2003 Ice Temperature and Mass Balance Buoy Data. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ice temperature and mass balance data from drifting ice buoys near the North Pole in the Central Basin of the Arctic Ocean. Buoys were deployed each April by the Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) and the Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL). The buoys drifted with the ice pack, and data were collected via satellite transmissions. Ice temperature data were collected year around during 2000-2003, at 10 cm depth intervals twice daily, every twelve hours. The North Pole Environmental Observatory (NPEO) is a year-round, automated scientific observatory, deploying various instruments each April in order to learn how the world's northernmost sea helps regulate global climate. It consists of a set of unmanned scientific platforms that record oceanographic, cryospheric, and atmospheric data throughout the year. More information about the project is available at the project Web site, North Pole Environmental Observatory (http:  psc.apl.washington.edu northpole ). Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format. Data are distributed as a 170 KB compressed file available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, nsidc, mass balance, arctic, ice temperature, national snow and ice data center, argos data collection and position location system, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, usa, noaa, buoys, arctic system science, usa, nsf, arcss128, sea ice, opp 9910305, terrestrial hydrosphere, ice buoy, arctic system science, north pole environmental observatory, npeo, polar, drifting buoys, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, glaciers, ice sheets, north pole, observatories, ocean, acoustic sounders, ocean platforms, buoy data, north pole environmental observatory, argos, oceans, geographic region, arcss, npeo, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km (MYD29) contains the following fields: sea ice by reflectance, sea ice by reflectance pixel quality assurance (QA), ice surface temperature (IST), IST pixel QA, sea ice by IST, combined sea ice, latitudes, and longitudes in HDF-EOS format along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Version 4 (V004) MYD29 data, the most current version available, uses Aqua MODIS band seven instead of band six. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: AVHRR data from Eurimage. ABSTRACT: The National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has been operating its Advanced Tiros-N (ATN) series of satellites since October 1978. Carrying the Tiros Operational Vertical Sounder (TOVS), a low-data-rate atmospheric sounding package, and the Advanced Very-High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR), these satellites were designed primarily for meteorological applications, but the AVHRR instrument, in particular, has proved very valuable in a variety of environment linked earth observation applications, such as: drought early warning regional and global vegetation monitoring snow and ice mapping dynamic oceanography hydrology geology detection of forest fires, gas flares and agricultural burning fire fuel mapping volcanology air and sea pollution monitoring toxic algal bloom detection continental scale mapping (less than 1:3,000,000). Eurimage distributes AVHRR data from NOAA, acquired from the TIROS satellites and received mainly at ESA ground stations. Coverage of Europe, Africa, the Middle East and parts of the Far East is provided, as shown in the sketch map below. With at least two satellites operational at any one time, each with a daily repeat cycle, twice daily and twice nightly coverage is possible for any point on the equator and approximately double this number (8 passes in total) at mid-latitudes. TIROS   AVHRR Technical Summary Orbit Launch Altitude Inclination 1979 840 km 98.7=B0- 98.9=B0 Sensors band (=B5m) 1 2 3 4 5 AVHRR 1 .55-.90 .72-1.0 3.55-3.93 10.5-11.5 GSD (m) 1000 1000 1000 1000 AVHRR 2 .58-.68 .72-1.0 3.55-3.93 10.3-11.3 11.5-12.5 GSD (m) 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 Scene size (km) Revisit interval 3000 x 6000 2 day at equator, 4 day at mid-latitudes GSD (m) 120 TIROS   AVHRR Orbit The TIROS satellites have a circular, polar, sun-synchronous orbit, with an altitude of approximately 840 km and an inclination of 98.7=B0 to 98.9=B0. NOAA maintain at least two operational satellites in complementary orbits, with one crossing the equator at local solar times of approximately 0730 and 1930, and the other at 0230 and 1430. By convention, the even-numbered satellites cover the 'morning orbit' (0730) and the odd-numbered satellites the 'afternoon orbit' (1430). The Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer is a four (AVHRR 1) or five (AVHRR 2) channel passive scanning radiometer. It has one visible channel, one near-infrared, one middle-infrared, and one two far-infrared channels. The nominal ground resolution is about 1 km. The extra channel of the AVHRR 2 (Channel 5) affords improved atmospheric correction of sea and land surface temperatures.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, television infrared observation satellite-n, surface radiative properties, mid-latitude, ecological dynamics, arctic, western asia, noaa-10, land surface temperature, thermal properties, snow cover, noaa-12, noaa-11, tiros-n, spectral, engineering, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, glaciers, ice sheets, surface water, landforms, aerosol radiance, visible wavelengths, ocean, middle east, land temperature, biomass burning, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, geographic region, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, atmospheric radiation, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, indian ocean, glaciers, continent, thermal inertia, visible imagery, aerosols, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, infrared imagery, clouds, equatorial, wetlands, tiros-7, mediterranean sea, lakes, reflected infrared, aerosol extinction, snow, ice, avhrr, europe, fire ecology, polar, cloud types, asia, earth science, cryosphere, television infrared operational, environmental impacts, land surface, usa, nasa, noaa-8, noaa-9, noaa-7, atlantic ocean, eurasia, fire occurrence, 
TITLE: ADT - Absolute Dynamic Topography. ABSTRACT: Contents: along-track sea surface heights above geoid; dynamic topography is the sum of sea level anomaly (SLA) and mean dynamic topography (MDT, Rio05 here) Use: study of the general circulation (ocean gyres ...) The data are global mono altimeter satellite products, homogeneous with other satellites, available in near-real time and in delayed time in NetCDF format. In delayed time, two types of products are available: - "Ref" (Reference) series: homogeneous datasets based on two satellites (Topex Poseidon, Jason-1 + ERS, Envisat) with the same groundtrack. Sampling is stable in time. - "Upd" (Updated) series: up-to-date datasets with up to four satellites at a given time (adding GFO and or Topex Poseidon on its new orbit). Sampling and Long Wavelength Errors determination are improved, but quality of the series is not homogeneous. Regional products with an improved quality are available in local areas ("http:  www.aviso.oceanobs.com html donnees produits hauteurs regional "). KEYWORD: arctic ocean, altimeters, sea level anomalies, arctic, gyres, ers radar altimeter, gfo-1, sea surface topography, physical oceanography, alt (topex), global ocean, environmental satellite, polar, idn_node esrin, cnes, southern ocean, topex, poseidon, pacific ocean, france, cnes, earth science, ceos, general ocean circulation, ra, envisat, sea surface height, ocean, altimeter, oceans, topex radar altimeter, ocean topography experiment, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, jason-1, indian ocean, ocean circulation, geosat follow-on-1, 
TITLE: North Water Polynya Seabird Surveys. ABSTRACT: To relate avian usage of the North Water polynya to the distribution, abundance and production of prey, we assessed seasonal changes in the distribution and relative abundance of seabirds. In order to assess the spatial distribution of seabirds in the North Water, we conducted surveys of seabirds from the bridge of the Canadian Coast Guard icebreakers whenever the icebreakers were underway. Bird specimens were also collected to carry out stable isotope analysis. The purpose of this study was to assess the patterns of avian usage of the North Water polynya. We assessed the timing of arrival and the seasonal changes in the at-sea distribution of seabirds in the North Water polynya and related these parameters to oceanographic conditions. Oceanographic variables were collected by collaborators and are not part of this data set. Birds were counted from the bridge of a ship within 300m one side of the ship whenever the ship was underway. Weather conditions and ocean conditions were recorded simultaneously and it was noted when sightability decreased to less than 300m. Position was recorded from ships GPS. Strip width was regularly checked using the Heineman method (Heineman 1981). Ship speed and course and position were recorded regularly. Birds behavior (flying, sitting on the water, feeding) were noted for each bird sighting. Some inconsistencies in the estimation of how much area was surveyed (based on ships speed and course) when ship changed course to avoid ice or had to back up to crash through ice. We conducted surveys from the bridge of Canadian Coast Guard icebreakers whenever the icebreakers were underway; the CCGS Louis St. Laurent in August 1997 and the CCGS Pierre Radisson in April-July 1998 and August-September 1999. We counted all birds within a 300m wide arc from the bow on the side of the ship with the best visibility. Data were entered directly into a notebook computer by the observer. We determined the boundary of the area in which the birds were counted by using the method of Heineman (1981). We noted the birds behavior (Flying, sitting on the water, etc). as well as the ships speed and course. As each bird sighting is entered into the computer, a time stamp is given to each record.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, kane basin, arctic, north atlantic ocean, relative abundance, birds, greenland, somalia, north water polynya, polar, africa, polynya, earth science, ceos, seabird surveys, marine ornithology, animals, vertebrates, ocean, high arctic, atlantic ocean, geographic region, ellesmere island, canada, eastern africa, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Warm Season Arctic Oscillation Reconstructions, 1650 - 1978 AD. ABSTRACT: Reconstruction of warm season Arctic Oscillation (AO) Surface Air Temperature (SAT) index for AD 1650 - 1975, and Summer (June-July-August) AO Sea Level Pressure (SLP) index based on a network of tree ring chronologies from circumpolar-Arctic and circum-North Atlantic areas.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, north atlantic ocean, vegetation, sea level pressure index reconstruction, usa, noaa, arctic oscillation, paleoclimate, climate indicators, paleo start date 450 ybp, pages, arctic oscillation reconstruction, quaternary, land records, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, paleoclimate reconstructions, temperature reconstruction, surface air temperature, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, biosphere, ao, tree ring chronologies, atmospheric pressure, surface air temperature index, atmospheric circulation reconstruction, ocean, slp, oceans, ocean pressure, air temperature reconstruction, atlantic ocean, geographic region, tree rings, teleconnections, 
TITLE: Impact of human activities in the Barents region using the GLOBIO methodology. ABSTRACT: Abstract - Impact of human activities in the Barents region using the GLOBIO methodology. Distance impact from Infrastructure and defined in the GLOBIO report Purpose - To provide policy makers with a tool to help assess the likelihood of environmental impacts in the Barents Region Format - Windows NT Version 5.0 (Build 2195) Service Pack 2; ESRI ArcInfo 8.1.0.415 Raw data are the B1000 dataset from the Barents GIT and National Mapping agency over the Barents region Grid Cell - Row Count 5192 Cell Count 6436 Map Projection - Albers Conical Equal Area. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, arctic, scandinavia, russia, sweden, un, human dimensions, europe, industrialization, barents sea, finland, polar, impact, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, northern europe, urbanization, transportation, eastern europe, environment, unep, grid, ocean, infrastructure, globio, wilderness, norway, geographic region, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Radiation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes radiation data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, uv-b, continent, uv-a, shortwave radiation, lter, arctic, solar flux, vegetation, outgoing shortwave radiation, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, net radiation, licor quantum sensor, radiometers, arws, polar, uv, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, outgoing longwave radiation, biosphere, incoming longwave radiation, antarctica, longwave radiation, radiation, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, lawn, 
TITLE: COVERAGE LFHTOP -- Structure contours of top of Laramie-Fox Hills aquifer. ABSTRACT: This data set was created to display maps of the altitude of the top of the Laramie-Fox Hills aquifer (Robson and others, 1998). This digital geospatial data set consists of structure contours of the top of the Laramie-Fox Hills aquifer along the Front Range of Colorado. The U.S. Geological Survey developed this data set as part of a project described in the report, "Structure, Outcrop, and Subcrop of the Bedrock Aquifers Along the Western Margin of the Denver Basin, Colorado" (Robson and others, 1998).. KEYWORD: continent, front range, topography, earth science, ground water, ceos, land surface, contours, colorado, gis, denver, united states of america, aquifers, north america, structure contour, terrestrial hydrosphere, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Bootstrap Sea Ice Concentrations from Nimbus-7 SMMR and DMSP SSM I. ABSTRACT: This sea ice concentration data set was derived using measurements from the Scanning Multichannel Microwave Radiometer (SMMR) on the Nimbus-7 satellite and from three Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) sensors on the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program's (DMSP) -F8, -F11, and -F13 satellites. The data set has been generated using the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) Bootstrap Algorithm with daily varying tie-points. Daily (every other day prior to July 1987) and monthly data are available for both the north and south polar regions. Data are gridded on the SSM I polar stereographic grid (25 x 25 km) and provided in two-byte integer format. Data are available via FTP. Important Note: The most recent revision (Version 2, released September 2007) has tie-points adjusted to be consistent with the AMSR-E Bootstrap algorithm. This involved a complete reprocessing of the entire SMMR-SSM I time series. Because Version 2 is inter-calibrated with AMSR-E, it is NOT consistent or compatible with the original version of this data set (Version 1). Users should acquire the entire Version 2 data set in order to update their time series.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, defense meteorological satellite program, dmsp, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, nimbus-7, north america, sea ice, north pacific ocean, bootstrap algorithm, time series, antarctica, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, canada, ocean, ross sea, oceans, amd, geographic region, indian ocean, continent, bellingshausen sea, sea ice concentration, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, smmr, eosdis, brightness temperatures, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, earth science information partners program, scanning multichannel microwave radiometer, weddell sea, antarctic, barents sea, polar, bering sea, amd, us, sea of okhotsk, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, ssm, i, davis straight, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Cumulative Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS PAR products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent L2 Swath 1km V003. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 2 swath product (MOD293) contains the following fields: Sea Ice by Reflective Characteristics, Sea Ice by Reflective Pixel Quality Assurance (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, Sea Ice by IST, Combined Sea Ice, Latitude, and Longitude. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring. This data set represents Version 3 (V003) of the MODIS processing scheme. The V003 collection contains reprocessed V001 data from 5 March 2001 onward and V003 data from 24 May 2001 onward. V003 data contain processing refinements accommodating algorithm, instrument and calibration stabilization. V003 start dates will continually shift to earlier dates as V001 data are reprocessed to V003. After V003 data are generated for a given day, the V001 data for the same day will still be available for ordering through the EOS Data Gateway (EDG) for at least six months. Eventually, V003 data will completely replace V001 data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Land Bird Monitoring Protocols for National Parks in Alaska. ABSTRACT: Purpose: The fieldwork had two primary objectives: (1) quantify interannual variation in the abundance of land birds along the Denali National Park and Preserve (NPP) road corridor. (2) Quantify intra-annual variation in the detection probabilities of breeding landbirds in the Denali NPP road corridor. Abstract: Fieldwork was conducted in Denali National Park and Preserve by Alaska Bird Observatory. In 1996, three observers determined seasonal variation in detection probabilities for breeding birds in the park by conducting 18 BBS-style counts on one On-road route and obtained further estimates of the interannual differences in relative abundance of breeding land birds in the park by resurveying nine Off-road Routes that were surveyed in 1993, 1994, and 1995, and resurveying all four BBS-style routes. Eighty-six taxa were detected in 1996 during systematic surveys, compared to 86 taxa in 1994, and 80 taxa in 1995. As in past years, the greatest species richness was found on the west side of the park, where a wide variety of habitat types exist including some of the only palustrine and lacustrine wetland habitat. Interannual variation data collected from On-road Routes (Breeding Bird Survey-style censuses) showed similar population trends as during Off-road Routes. The abundance of species that were rare (occurred at <2% of all counting stations) tended to fluctuate widely between years, often rare species were not detected in some years. In contrast, the populations of species that were common and widespread exhibited little annual variation, which is a pattern that previous studies in this region of Alaska have found. White-winged Crossbill numbers were relatively low in 1996 during On-road Routes, while Orange-crowned Warbler abundance was greater than in previous years. There was significant seasonal variation in detection probabilities for a number of species. For example, Willow Ptarmigan (a permanent resident) had high detection probabilities only during the first half of May. Most Nearctic migrants arrived in the park by early May, while many short-distance Neotropical migrant species did not arrive until 1 June. Long-distance Neotropical migrant numbers did not peak until 9 June in 1995. Paleotropical migrants (primarily Arctic Warbler) were the last migrants to arrive in the Park, with the first detections on 10 June. Species richness started to decline by 26 June. The peak survey period in the park extended from 10-25 June, as was suggested by the Boreal Partners in Flight working group. Assuming one were attempting to monitor avian populations in Denali NPP with a 90% probability that were detected at > 14% of all survey stations could be adequately monitored with 100 independent counting stations sampled each year. On Off-road Routes in spruce-dominated habitats, 11 taxa met these power calculations criteria in both 1994 and 1995 (Gray Jay, Swainson's Thrush, American Robin, Varied Thrush, Orange-Crowned Warbler, Yellow-rumped Warbler, Wilson's American Tree Sparrow, White-crowned Sparrow, Dark-eyed Junco, and Redpoll sp.). These 11 taxa represent a broad array of migration strategies (e.g., permanent residents, long-distance and short-distance Neotropical migrants, nearctic migrants, and boreal migrants), and should be emphasized for detailed monitoring scheme. Both Off- and On-road routes should continue to be conducted in future years. The minimum amount of sampling that should be conducted on the same nine Off-road Routes (108 total stations) that have been surveyed since 1993; each survey station needs to be visited once per season. In addition, although using frequency (i.e., the proportion of stations with detections) is the primary analysis tool used in this report, we strongly urge that total counts (i.e., the total number of individuals detected at each station) continue to be collected at all survey stations. Virtually all other monitoring programs use total counts to monitor interannual variation in avian abundance, therefore data have to be collected in a format that is comparable to other similar programs. Geographic Description: Denali National Park and Preserve is located in the central Alaska Range, approximately 210 km southwest of Fairbanks, Alaska. The study area encompassed the Road Corridor which is 1 km on either side of the main park road, 150 km long and extending westward from the park entrance at the Parks Highway (63.73, 148.92) to the airfield near Kantishna (63.53, 151.00). 1.5.2 Bounding Rectangle Coordinates Methodology: Two survey methods were used - Off-road and On-road Routes, to compare avian abundance estimates among years. Off-road Routes sampled birds only in spruce forests in the Park, whereas On-road Routes sampled all habitat types along the Park road corridor. Off-road routes. -- This technique followed the methodology developed by an Alaska Partners in Flight working group. Off-road Routes were 12 point-count stations spaced approximately 250 m apart. One observer surveyed one route per morning by walking between points. These Routes were located only in spruce forest dominated habitats. Forests were defined as habitats where trees (i.e., single-stemmed woody plants >3 m in height) comprised > 10% of the crown cover (Viereck et al. 1992). Forest stands were <0.8 km. from the park road to ease access and had to be large enough to contain the Route (i.e., 2.75 km long by 0.5 km wide). All birds detected at an unlimited distance from counting stations were recorded for a 5-minute period (Blondel et al. 1981, Ralph 1993). Data were subdivided into the number of detections before and after 3-minutes had elapsed. Detection cues were separated into singing, calling, visual, and flying overhead. Detections were further subdivided into those <50 m from counting stations and those >50 m. In 1996, we resurveyed all nine Off-road Routes censused in 1993, 1994, 1995; this resulted in 108 counting stations surveyed. Four of the Routes were located at the east end of the Park road corridor, three were near the middle of the Park, and two were on the west end of the park. Each Route was surveyed only one time per breeding season. Two observers were used for these surveys in 1996, one of whom had conducted observation variation surveys in Denali in 1995. Following guidelines suggested by Verner and Ritter (1986, Dawson 1981), surveys were initiated at official sunrise and took approximately 3 hours to complete. Habitat characteristics at each counting station were quantified following a protocol developed by an Alaska Partners in Flight working group (Handel 1993). Data recorded within 50 m of each counting station included: elevation, aspect, slope, presence and type of water (e.g., pond, river), tree canopy height, % of coniferous trees, % of total tree cover, dominant shrub height, % of total shrub cover, dominant shrub species, dominant ground cover. The primary objective of this habitat analysis was to classify each counting station into habitat categories developed by both Kessel (1979) and Viereck et al. (1992). On-road routes - This technique utilized a methodology developed for the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) (Droege 1990). Censuses were conducted along three 39.4 km (24.5 mile) routes and one 29.8 km (18.5 mile) route. Fifty census stations were located along each route, with the exception of the 36 stations on Route #4 (39 stations in 1993, and 37 stations in 1994 and 1995; only 33 stations were surveyed on 6 19 96). Counting stations were spaced 0.8 km (0.5 miles) apart and observers drove between stations, with observers surveying one route per morning. Detections included birds heard (recorded as either singing or calling) or seen from counting stations for a three-minute census period. Birds were recorded at an unlimited distance from counting stations for a three-minute census period. Birds were recorded at an unlimited distance from counting stations. Routes were initiated 1 2 hour before official sunrise, or no earlier than 3:30 AM and took 4-5 hours to complete.. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, denali national park and preserve, fairbanks, ak, ecological dynamics, abundance, arctic, landbird monitoring, birds, land bird monitoring, united states of america, north america, landbirds, alaska, parks highway, kantishna, long-term monitoring, polar, habitat association, passerines, earth science, ceos, denali park, ak, biosphere, population dynamics, land birds, animals, vertebrates, species, population interactions, geographic region, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Northeast Alaska Hydrography; USGS. ABSTRACT: This Northeast Alaska Hydrography data set includes digital data stream networks digitized from U.S. Geological Survey quadrangle maps. The maps are digitized on a Talos table with resolutions of .001'. Files are then edited visually on a Tectronics terminal. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. Data are used for geographic information systems processing.. KEYWORD: continent, geomorphology, arctic, ground water, aedd, geology, rivers, stream habitat, united states of america, stream, north america, alaska, geography, ground stations, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, us, hydrology, earth science, ceos, groundwater, maps, charts, cartography, biosphere, water, surface water, hydrography, alaska directory, water quality, rivers, streams, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Relative Humidity. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes relative humidity measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, humidity, taylor valley, lake fryxell, arws, polar, amd, us, relative humidity, meteorology, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter mcm, atmospheric water vapor, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Arctic Ocean Snow and Meteorological Observations from Drifting Stations. ABSTRACT: During 1950-1991 the USSR maintained two, and sometimes three, drifting ice stations in the Arctic Ocean. In addition to supporting scientific studies, these manned ice camps operated as synoptic meteorological stations reporting position, surface weather, atmospheric soundings, solar radiation, and snow conditions. Data from these drifting stations are daily averages, or 3-hourly measured values. Observations were made throughout the Arctic basin with a spatial resolution dependent on the movement of the drifting ice floes on which the stations were located. The data are presented on 1 CD-ROM in many small ASCII files totalling 73 mbytes. Fortran formats are listed in the documentation for each file type. Some files are comma-delimited tables. Documentation files are ASCII (text) files; PostScript versions of two data reports (see References) are included on the CD-ROM, with .GIF files containing figures. Though these data were regularly transmitted over the GTS (Global Telecommunication System of the World Meteorological Organization) and archived at various institutions, the primary source for this data compilation is the original meteorological log books, presently archived at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), St. Petersburg, Russia. As a continuation and expansion of cooperative agreements between AARI and the Polar Science Center (PSC) at the University of Washington in Seattle, AARI digitized, organized, and quality checked the data, PSC further organized and quality checked the data, linearly interpolated the position data where necessary to fill gaps in the sporadic observations during the early years, and processed all observations into the daily averaged "combined" data file. NSIDC organized the files and documentation for CD-ROM production, and is distributing the CD-ROM. GeoVu, a menu-driven data display and visualization software package from NOAA's National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC), can be used with the CD-ROM. GeoVu for Unix and Macintosh is available via ftp from NGDC at "ftp:  ftp.ngdc.noaa.gov", in the directory Solid_Earth Access_Tools GeoVu. The data files do not work with the PC version of GeoVu (see note in section on "Quality".) The first drifting station was NP-1, operating from 1937-05-22 through 1938-02-19. NP-2 began on 1950-04-22, and at least one station, sometimes two, operated from that date until the end of NP-31 on 1991-03-31. One station was continuously operated for 8.5 years; the average duration was 2.4 years. Additional snow data from Arctic coastal stations may become available in the near future. Contact NSIDC User Services for current information.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, polar science center, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, direct solar radiation, low cloud amount, arctic, aedd, snow measuring rod, usa, noaa, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, snow cover, humidity, thermometers, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, albedo, ground-based observations, snow density, add, rain, international arctic environmental data, surface pressure, relative humidity, surface air temperature, solar radiation, anemometers, snow surface temperature, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, rain gauges, atmospheric winds, ocean weather stations, ocean, water vapor, snow, geographic region, chukchi sea, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, diffuse solar radiation, snow depth, reflected solar radiation, psc, air temperature, clouds, total cloud amount, arctic climate system, arctic and antarctic research institute, global solar radiation, net radiation budget, snow, ice, barents sea, surface winds, bering sea, polar, solar radiation stations, east siberian sea, cloud types, national snow and ice d, pacific ocean, arctic environmental data, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, outgoing longwave radiation, liquid water equivalent, solar irradiance, beaufort sea, snow, ice temperature, precipitation type, atmospheric emitted radiation, acsys, atmospheric pressure, laptev sea, cloud amount, frequency, aari, hygrometers, snow water equivalent, kara sea, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Cumulative Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Northern Canada Ground Temperatures. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of precise ground temperature data for northern Canada. The computer version of the series is: 'Canadian Geothermal Data Collection - Northern Wells', Geothermal Series of the Earth Physics Branch of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources (now GSC). This data was also released in 1998 as part of a CD-ROM compiled by the International Permafrost Association entitled 'Circumpolar Active-Layer Permafrost System (CAPS)'. For more information on this CD-ROM see the National Snow and Ice Data Center distributor section for details.This data is used to observe and study heat flow and the relationship of permafrost to climate change. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, environmental geology, gcmd, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, usa, noaa, nunavut, northwest territories, eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, land surface temperature, north america, ontario, surficial, saskatchewan, geothermal, soil temperature, soils, snow, ice, yukon territory, polar, ground temperature, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, geophysics, land surface, usa, nasa, quebec, alberta, land heat capacity, environment, canada, cgdi, permafrost, earth observing system data information system, canada, land temperature, esip, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: North American Bird Banding Retrieval Files. ABSTRACT: Purpose: Banding and encounter data are gathered and filed for the purpose of facilitating migratory bird research in North America. Waterfowl banding and encounter data are used by federal, state and provincial wildlife agencies in combination with other data sets, to help set federal hunting regulations. In addition, many states and provinces use banding and encounter data as a component of both game and non-game studies. Both banding and encounter data can be combined with other data for work on bird distribution, migration, survival, mortality, population size, and other demographic parameters. Abstract: Bird banding is a universal and indispensable technique for studying the movement, survival and behavior of birds. Data is collected by numerous permitted individuals in both countries. The North American Bird Banding Program is jointly administered by the U.S. Geological Survey Biological Resources Division and the Canadian Wildlife Service. Their respective banding offices have similar functions and policies and use the same bands, reporting forms and data formats. Joint coordination of the program dates back to 1923. In the U.S., the Bird Banding Laboratory (BBL) at Laurel, Maryland, functions as a service and administrative center for those who use the banding technique or banding data in their work. BBL issues permits and bands, supplies forms, instructional materials and technical advice, coordinates the use of auxiliary markers such as colored leg bands and radio transmitters, serves as the repository for banding data, serves as the clearinghouse for reports of banded birds, disseminates banding data to researchers and managers, and assists in the development and coordination of banding projects. BBL edits and inputs data into its Banding Encounter Database. Supplementary Information: The numerical codes in the data can be translated with the aid of the Banding Manual (described in the section 1.15 Cross Reference). Status code in the first column indicates that something was done to the bird upon recapture that changed the original status. Geographic Description: Includes range of North American species. Range includes breeding, wintering and migration locations. Wintering ranges can include South America, Africa, Europe. Breeding can occur as far north as the Arctic. However, the species being studied are North American species. Methodology: There are numerous, highly variable techniques in bird banding and encounters. bird banding and encounters. KEYWORD: continent, tagging, biological classification, abundance, arctic, chordata, range, birds, animalia, aves, breeding range, caribbean, united states of america, encounters, north america, south america, europe, polar, africa, retraps, north american species, earth science, banding, ceos, animals, vertebrates, marking, central america, canada, migration, geographic region, winter range, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Norwegian North Polar Expedition 1893-1896: Oceanographic Data. ABSTRACT: This data set contains water depth, temperature, specific gravity, salinity, and density measurements from the North Polar Basin and the Barents Sea, gathered by Nansen and crew on the Norwegian North Polar Expedition from 1893-1896. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, specific gravity, hydrometers, tornoe's apparatus, arctic, north atlantic ocean, fram, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, temperature, thermometers, hydrometer, barents sea, nansen, polar, salinity, density, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, ceos, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water bottles, ships, depth, water depth, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, ocean depth, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Northern Circumpolar Soils Map. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of a circumpolar map of dominant soil characteristics, with a scale of 1:10,000,000, covering the United States, Canada, Greenland, Iceland, northern Europe, Russia, Mongolia, and Kazakhstan. The map was created using the Northern and Mid Latitude Soil Database. The map is in ESRI Shapefile format, consisting of 11 regional areas.. Polygons have attributes that give the percentage polygon area that is a given soil type. The map shows the dominant soil of the spatial polygon unless the polygon is over 90 percent rock or ice. It also shows the proportion of polygon encompassed by the dominant soil or nonsoil. Soils include turbels, orthels, histels, histosols, mollisols, vertisols, aridisols, andisols, entisols, spodosols, inceptisols (and hapludolls), alfisols (cryalf and udalf), natric great groups, aqu-suborders, glaciers, and rocklands. Data are available via ftp.. KEYWORD: continent, ggd, usa, noaa, permafrost regions, agriculture, greenland, united states of america, russia, north america, mongolia, circumpolar, kazakhstan, permafrost classifications, soils, snow, ice, europe, soil classification, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, asia, eastern asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, iceland, land surface, northern europe, southcentral asia, eastern europe, permafrost, canada, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: Climate Change in Canada - Impacts and Adaptation. ABSTRACT: Climate change affects all aspects of the Canadian economy and Canadian society as a whole. The Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation Program provides funding for research and activities to improve our knowledge of Canada's vulnerability to climate change, to better assess the risks and benefits posed by climate change and to build the foundation upon which appropriate decisions on adaptation can be made.The Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation site provides information on the activities of the Program and links to useful information about climate impacts and adaptation both in Canada and globally. Information about projects funded by the program is accessible through the Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation Project Database.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, evolutionary adaptation, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, agriculture, water resources, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, human dimensions, snow, ice, climate change, polar, hydrology, water management, nova scotia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, climate, biosphere, quebec, snow, ice temperature, alberta, agricultural plant science, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, prince edward island, species, population interactions, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, animal science, 
TITLE: University of Wisconsin Antarctic Soils Database. ABSTRACT: The University of Wisconsin Antarctic Soils Database contains data collected by Dr. James G. Bockheim and his colleagues from 1975 through 1987. Data include site information, air and soil temperature measurements, soil profile features, and surface boulder weathering features for 482 sites in the McMurdo Sound area of Antarctica. Soil profile descriptions are provided for soils inside the McMurdo Dry Valleys from 23 December 1975 to 22 December 1987, and outside the Dry Valleys from 13 November 1978 to 04 January 1986. Chemical and physical properties of soils at 214 sites are also provided. The study area is confined to 77 deg 7.5 min S to 78 deg S, 160 deg E to 164 deg E. Data are in tab-delimited ASCII text format, and are available via ftp.. KEYWORD: continent, soil heat budget, soil moisture, water content, cryopedology, ggd, soil structure, geocryology, arctic, usa, noaa, soil depth, soil consistence, soil temperature, soils, soil classification, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, amd, us, soil texture, soil horizons, profile, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, soil color, antarctica, antarctica, ellsworth and trans-antarctic mountains, laboratory investigation, soil ph, frozen ground, amd, soil properties, soil salinity, soil sodicity, geographic region, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: GLDAS Noah Land Surface Model L4 Monthly 0.25 x 0.25 degree V001 (GLDAS_NOAH025_M) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Noah 2.7.1 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 0.25 degree resolution and range from 2000 to the present. The temporal resolution is monthly. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency's AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Noah model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 1 Surface pressure Pa 11 Near surface air temperature K 32 Near surface wind magnitude m s 51 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 57 Total Evapotranspiration kg m^2 s 65 Snow Water Equivalent kg m^2 71 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 85 Average layer soil temperature K 86 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 99 Snowmelt kg m^2 s 111 Net Shortwave Radiation W m^2 112 Net Longwave Radiation W m^2 121 Latent Heat Flux W m^2 122 Sensible Heat Flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average Surface Temperature K 155 Ground Heat Flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface Runoff kg m^2 s 235 Surface Runoff kg m^2 s There are 4 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: Arctic Ostracode Database. ABSTRACT: The Arctic Ostracode Database provides species census data for about 100 species of benthic marine Ostracoda from modern surface and late Quaternary sediments from various parts of the Arctic Ocean and adjacent seas. This readme file describes the sources of the ostracode data provided in the four accompanying data files. Ostracodes are a microfossil group of bivalved Crustacea that secrete a calcareous shell commonly preserved in sediments in the Arctic region. Because many ostracode species have ecological limits controlled by temperature, salinity, oxygen, food and other factors, they can provide an important tool for paleoceanographic reconstruction in the Arctic. Some recent applications of ostracodes to understanding Arctic Ocean history include Briggs (1983), Reimnitz et al. (1983, 1992), McDougall et al. (1986), Clark et al. (1990), Pak et al. (1992), Brouwers et al. (1991), Cronin et al. (1993, 1994, 1995), Penney (1993a,b), Nurnberg et al. (1994), and Briggs and Mudie (in prep.).. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, past global changes, igbp, arthropods, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, ostracods, pages, ostracodes, ocean, lake records, quaternary, polar, arctic ocean basin, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, surface-sediment, ocean, late quaternary, geographic region, paleo stop date 0 ma, sediments, paleo start date 1 ma, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Birds Oiled at Sea. ABSTRACT: Summary: Oil released at sea, whether from chronic operational discharges or accidental spills, can directly kill any seabird that it touches on the sea surface. This oiling causes severe distress for individual birds and can have significant impacts at the population level. Marine oil pollution from chronic operational discharges is both illegal and preventable. The costs of taking appropriate action to prevent such discharges make it important to quantify, to the degree possible, the severe ecological consequences of continuing to release oil into the sea. Atlantic Canada is an important crossroads for seabirds, where productive marine waters support the tens of millions of birds. Huge numbers of birds from Newfoundland breeding colonies overlap with millions of seasonal visitors - wintering birds from colonies in Arctic Canada and Europe and from the south Atlantic. The same waters serve as commercial fishing grounds and major shipping lanes linking Europe and North America. For the waters off southeastern Newfoundland, the many variables that must be considered to complete these complicated calculations have been assembled for the species most commonly found oiled - the Thick-billed Murre, or turr. This species breeds in colonies in the eastern Canadian Arctic and western Greenland, and is one of the most numerous wintering seabirds in waters off Newfoundland and northern Nova Scotia. It is regionally important as the most common species taken in the Newfound-land turr hunt. Waterbody or Watershed Names: Atlantic Ocean, Canada Purpose: Assessing the numbers of seabirds killed by oil at sea. Only a small proportion of birds killed by oil are actually found on shore, because many never reach land, instead being carried offshore or sinking. Others may reach the shore but are never found, instead becoming buried in the beach, decomposing or being carried off by scavengers. Estimates of the actual number of birds dying at sea are derived using an approach that sequentially builds in the following information: -the number of oiled birds found washed ashore on beaches, -the length of time that carcasses of oiled birds remain on a beach, -the length of time that an oiled bird carcass floats at sea before sinking, -the proportion of those birds that die at sea which drift towards shore, and -the size of the ocean area being considered, where ship-source oil pollution and seabirds overlap, resulting in the risk of oiling to seabirds. Additional Information OR Comments: Videos and fact sheets are available.. KEYWORD: continent, gulf of maine, arctic ocean, polar, biological classification, thick-billed murre, or turr, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, birds, animals, vertebrates, canada, ocean, atlantic seabirds, north america, gommp, gulf of maine monitoring programs, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Taxonomically comprehensive assessment of biodiversity of animal plankton throughout the world ocean. ABSTRACT: The Census of Marine Zooplankton (CMarZ) is a field project of the Census of Marine Life (see http:  www.CoML.org ). CMarZ will work toward a taxonomically comprehensive assessment of biodiversity of animal plankton throughout the world ocean. The project goal is to produce accurate and complete information on zooplankton species diversity, biomass, biogeographical distribution, genetic diversity, and community structure. Our taxonomic focus is the animals that drift with ocean currents throughout their lives. This assemblage currently includes ~6,800 described species in fifteen phyla; our expectation is that at least that many new species will be discovered as a result of our efforts. The census will encompass unique marine environments and those likely to be inhabited by endemic and undescribed zooplankton species. A distributed database - fully integrated with and searchable from the Ocean Biogeographical Information System (OBIS) portal - contains species-level, specimen-based, geo-referenced entries. Molecular analysis will include determining a DNA barcode (i.e., reference DNA sequence) for each species; describing genetic diversity and structure of populations and species, identifying cryptic species, and reconstructing their evolutionary histories.. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, biological classification, jellyfishes, crustaceans, arthropods, ecological dynamics, arctic, ostracods, obis, protists, cmarz, global ocean, aquatic ecosystems, amoeboids, coml, ray-finned fishes, biosphere, squids, tunicates, animals, vertebrates, arrow worms, ecosystem functions, community structure, ocean, amd, obis, us, geographic region, indian ocean, foraminifers, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, larvaceans, euphausiids (krill), biomass dynamics, plankton, biodiversity functions, polar, census of marine life, salps, southern ocean, copepods, pacific ocean, zooplankton, community dynamics, earth science, ceos, ocean biogeographic information system, cephalopods, fish, calanoid copepods, census of marine zooplankton, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History - Marine Birds, Mammals, and Fishes (OBIS Canada). ABSTRACT: This is the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History database for marine organisms, including birds, mammals, and fishes. It contains mostly Nova Scotia material but there is also representation from New Brunswick, Newfoundland, the Northwest Territories, and other parts of North America. The ichthyology collection is the most extensive with over 2800 specimens. Temporally, specimens were collected from 1873 to 2002. The dataset was developed from the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History (NSMNH) - Museum Information Management System (MIMS) as an electronic catalogue of specimen and collecting information. Purpose: These data are for display on the OBIS portal and associated mapping programs and for download to personal computers for ad-hoc end-user analysis.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, epipelagic fish, fish data, mid-latitude, greenland bank, arctic, salmonids, striped bass, sable island, demersal habitat, bottom-feeding fish, obis, northern hemisphere, seals, north america, bottom fish, groundfish, aquatic ecosystems, whales, species composition, gulf of maine, coml, pelagic habitat, nova scotia, grand banks, marshes, demersal fish, terrestrial ecosystems, bay of fundy, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, waterfowl, benthic habitat, mammals, ocean, canada, saline lakes, bays, new brunswick, oceans, scotian shelf, geographic region, rays, western hemisphere, benthicfish, fish species composition, continent, newfoundland and labrador, tuna, finfish, abundance, pelagic fish, lahave bank, north atlantic ocean, sea floor, emerald bank, georges bank, distribution, northwest territories, wetlands, emerald gully, fish species abundance, lakes, coastal habitat, shark, vertical location, polar, mesopelagic fish abundance and biomass, census of marine life, marine mammals, earth science, flounder, gulfs, ocean biogeographic information system, usa, nasa, ducks, porpoises, emerald basin, seabirds, sunfish, cod, atlantic ocean, obis, ca, estuarine habitat, gulf of st lawrence, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Day V001. ABSTRACT: Sea ice products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded day and night composites, at 1 km resolution. Level 3 products consist of tiles of data, approximately 1200 km by 1200 km in area, gridded in a Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area (EASE-Grid) projection. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Sea Ice Index (NDSI) and other criteria to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective characteristics. The level 3 day product (MOD29P1D1) contains the following fields: Sea Ice by Reflective Characteristics, Sea Ice by Reflective Pixel Quality Assurance (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST Pixel QA, Sea Ice by IST, and Combined Sea Ice. The data also contain local and global metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Sea ice data are in HDF-EOS format and are available by ftp. MODIS sea ice products are considered provisional at this time. Product quality may not be optimal, and incremental product improvements are still occurring.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, global, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: GLDAS Noah Land Surface Model L4 3 Hourly 1.0 x 1.0 degree Subsetted V001 (GLDAS_NOAH10SUBP_3H) at GES DISC. ABSTRACT: This data set contains a series of land surface parameters simulated from the Noah 2.7.1 model in the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS). The data are in 1.0 degree resolution and range from 1979 to the present. The temporal resolution is 3-hour. This simulation was forced by combination of NOAA GDAS atmospheric analysis fields, spatially and temporally disaggregated NOAA Climate Prediction Center Merged Analysis of Precipitation (CMAP) fields, and observation based downward shortwave and longwave radiation fields derived using the method of the Air Force Weather Agency's AGRicultural METeorological modeling system (AGRMET). The simulation was initialized on 1 January 1979 using soil moisture and other state fields from a GLDAS Noah model climatology for that day of the year. WGRIB or other GRIB reader is required to read the files. The data set applies a user-defined parameter table to indicate the contents and parameter number. The following table shows a list of parameters, their Product Definition Section (PDS) IDs and units. PDS_IDs Full_Name Unit 001 Surface pressure Pa 011 Near surface air temperature K 032 Near surface wind magnitude m s 051 Near surface specific humidity kg kg 057 Total evapotranspiration kg m^2 065 Snow water equivalent kg m^2 071 Total canopy water storage kg m^2 085 Average layer soil temperature K 086 Average layer soil moisture kg m^2 099 Snowmelt kg m^2 111 Net shortwave radiation W m^2 112 Net longwave radiation W m^2 121 Latent heat flux W m^2 122 Sensible heat flux W m^2 131 Snowfall rate kg m^2 s 132 Rainfall rate kg m^2 s 138 Average surface temperature K 155 Ground heat flux W m^2 204 Surface incident shortwave radiation W m^2 205 Surface incident longwave radiation W m^2 234 Subsurface runoff kg m^2 235 Surface runoff kg m^2 There are 4 vertical levels for the Soil Moisture (PDS 086) and Soil Temperature (PDS 085) in the GRIB file. For more information, please see ftp:  agdisc.gsfc.nasa.gov data s4pa GLDAS README.GLDAS.pdf. KEYWORD: atmosphere, soil moisture, water content, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, global, evapotranspiration, global land data assimilation system, climate indicators, eosdis, gldas, precipitation, earth science information partners program, land surface temperature, humidity, soil temperature, soils, heat flux, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, rain, models, surface pressure, hydrology, surface air temperature, earth science, runoff, land surface, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, surface water, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, snow, land temperature, humidity indices, esip, geographic region, snow water equivalent, atmospheric radiation, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Yearly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: The 14-km SST Fields from the NOAA TIROS N Satellite Series. ABSTRACT: The 14-km SST fields consists of a specific set of information pertaining to global latitude and longitude intersections. The 0.125-degree resolution file, or 14-km field file covers 8 regions: 1) 18N-31N, 80W-98W; 2) 39N-52N, 123W-136W; 3) 28N-41N, 114W-136W; 4) 30N-46N, 60W-82W; 5) 18N-32N, 70W-85W; 6) 50N-62N, 126W-160W; 7) 50-70N, 157W-180W; and 8) 20N-32N, 105W-136W. This covers the Gulf of Mexico, Northwest Pacific Coast, Southwest Pacific Coast, Northeast Atlantic, Southeast Atlantic of the U.S., as well as the Bering and Chukchi Seas. The 14-km file is used by the OCNMAP subsystem for the dynamic gross cloud test. With a latitude longitude from the image product file, the OCNMAP subsystem accesses the nearest grid point in the SST field file to retrieve the field temperature. If the latitude longitude desired is not available in the SST field files, this test is skipped.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, arctic ocean, television infrared observation satellite-n, mid-latitude, atlantic coast, arctic, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, sea surface, east coast, noaa-10, sst, north america, noaa-12, noaa-11, washington, oregon coast, tiros-n, north pacific ocean, sea surface temperature, pacific coast, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-10, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-12, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-11, ocean, gulf of mexico, oceans, gulf of california, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-7, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-6, geographic region, chukchi sea, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-9, national oceanic & atmospheric administration-8, continent, north atlantic ocean, gulf of alaska, equatorial, united states of america, avhrr, bering sea, vertical location, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, california coast, noaa-8, noaa-9, noaa-6, noaa-7, atlantic ocean, idn_node gsfc, noaa, nesdis, osdpd, 
TITLE: Breeding ecology of skuas on Barton peninsula, King George Island, the Antarctic. ABSTRACT: The ratio of breeding pairs of brown skuas, south polar skuas and mixed species pairs between Barton and Weaver peninsulas were not different (2-test, 2=0.503, df=2, p=0.778). The nests of skuas were clustered on Barton, whereas distributed randomly on Weaver peninsula. The distance of between brown skua (Catharacta lonnbergi) nests , and that of mixed species pair nests were longer than that of south polar skua (C. maccormicki) nests . Brown skua nests were distributed along the coast. Whereas, the nests of mixed species pairs and south polar skuas were found more frequently inland (Kruskal-Wallis, 2=11.631, df=2, p<0.005). There was no interspecific difference in the distances between skua nests and Penguin rookery in Barton (Kruskal-Wallis, 2=2.153, df=2, p=0.341) and in King Sejong Station (ANOVA, F=1.483, df=2, p=0.229). In general, skuas prefer lower site (<125m above sea level) as their nest building sites. Brown skua nests were distributed mainly on the beach, whereas south polar skua ones were distributed on the predominant periglacial landforms and till areas (2-test, 2=24.988, df=8, p<0.005).. KEYWORD: continent, polar, zodiacs, field scope, arctic, earth science, ceos, amd, kr, gps, spring balance, binocular, antarctica, global positioning system, agriculture, animal ecology and behavior, meckaas, amd, monitoring on environmental changes at the korean arctic and antarctic stations, geographic region, animal science, 
TITLE: Canadian Museum of Nature - Fish Collection. ABSTRACT: This digital database contains all fish records held at the Canadian Museum of Nature and collected from Canada and the United States as well as from associated marine water masses such as the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Arctic Oceans. It excludes all other records from countries and oceans not listed above.Data records from fish specimens maintained in the Fish Collection of the Canadian Museum of Nature are available for use in biodiversity, ecological, and biogeographic investigations. Users can locate specimens of special interest by searching the digital records and contacting the Museum for access to the actual specimen(s). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: geographic text descriptors (e.g. lake, river, bay, ocean, sea, bank, province, county, state, country, park, water body) Direct Spatial Reference: points Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, gomodp, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, demersal habitat, rivers, stream habitat, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, central canada, aquatic ecosystems, human dimensions, atlantic provinces, gulf of maine, pelagic habitat, nova scotia, prairie provinces, biosphere, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, animals, vertebrates, conservation, canada, cgdi, benthic habitat, ocean, canada, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, united states of america, saskatchewan, canadian territories, lakes, coastal habitat, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, gulfs, quebec, alberta, western canada, prince edward island, fish, atlantic ocean, estuarine habitat, 
TITLE: A. Census Dictionary (2001), Canada. ABSTRACT: The Geography section of the 2001 Census Dictionary gives an overview of what's new for 2001 and the definitions for 50 geographic concepts, products and other terms. The definitions include a detailed description of each term, any delineation rules, special notes, data quality information or applications relevant to the term. Some historical information is also provided. The dictionary also includes a comprehensive subject index. An Internet version is available as a print publication. Catalogue number for printed documents is: 92-378-XPE01000, Free on the Internet the catalogue number is: 92-378-XIE01000 for additional information visit the organization's web site To inform Statistics Canada data users on the concepts, terms, variables, and geographic elements of the 2001 Census.. KEYWORD: census dictionary, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, handbooks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, catalogues, yukon territory, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, population, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, economic resources, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2001. ABSTRACT: Monochromatic CCD Aurora Imager is to monitor auroral displays at certain wavelength at nearly 180 degrees filed of view. The data is digitized images recorded on DVD-R with two copies; one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between these two institutes.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, ccd imager, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Ice Core Interplanetary Dust Helium Isotope Data. ABSTRACT: This data set contains helium isotope measurements on dust in ice cores from GISP2 (Greenland) and Vostok (Antarctica). These data provide a proxy for extraterrestrial dust flux since 97,000 years before present. Data are available in MS Word and ASCII formats via ftp from the World Data Center for Paleoclimatology.. KEYWORD: nsf, continent, helium isotopes, past global changes, igbp, opp9909384, cenozoic, volcanic deposits, extraterrestrial dust, arctic, global, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, gisp2, extraterrestrial flux, greenland, particulate matter, pages, north america, isotopes, quaternary, greenland ice sheet project ii, vostok, opp-9909384, polar, amd, us, ice cores, paleo stop date 0 ybp, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, antarctica, 3he, interplanetary dust, paleo start date 100,000 ybp, national science foundation, vostok station, amd, ice core records, ice core dust, geographic region, 
TITLE: Historical CO2 Record from the Vostok Ice Core in CDIAC. ABSTRACT: Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO2) have been derived from ice cores in Antarctica. In January 1998, the collaborative ice-drilling project between Russia, the United States, and France at the Russian Vostok station in East Antarctica yielded the deepest ice core ever recovered, reaching a depth of 3,623 m (Petit et al. 1997, 1999). Preliminary data indicate the Vostok ice-core record extends through four climate cycles, with ice slightly older than 400,000 years (400 kyr) (Petit et al. 1997, 1999). The dates were determined through an analysis of air bubbles trapped in the ice core. The data has been extended back to 417.160 years before present. The ice core data is available online from CDIAC at: "http:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov trends co2 vostok.htm". KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, greenhouse gases, cenozoic, co2, greenhouse effect, arctic, paleo stop date 2342 ybp, paleoclimate, greenhouse gas, quaternary, vostok, snow, ice chemistry, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, carbon dioxide, amd, us, ftp, trace gases, trace species, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global warming, paleo start date 417160 ybp, amd, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, 
TITLE: National Scale Frameworks Hydrology - Drainage Network, Canada. ABSTRACT: Atlas of Canada National Frameworks data are standardized national coverages of commonly used geospatial data sets at the 1:1 000 000 scale. A variety of framework layers (e.g. hydrology, roads, railways, populated places) have been integrated so that their relative positions are correct. Hydrology (which includes coastline) is the base layer to which all others are fitted. In addition, the Atlas of Canada National Frameworks collection forms a base to which an increasing number of national scale thematic frameworks from other Federal Government agencies are integrated (e.g. ecological regions, census subdivisions). The National Scale Frameworks Hydrology data consists of area, linear and point geospatial and attribute data for Canada's hydrology at a national scale. It provides a representation of Canada's surface water features, and data completeness reflects the content of the source, the original Vector Map level 0 (VMAP0) revision 4 hydrographic layers, except where revision editing has been performed. Key value-added characteristics include river flow direction, connectivity and the tagging of geographical name keys to selected rivers, lakes and islands included in the Concise Gazetteer of Canada. The product set for the hydrology theme consists of six groupings: - Drainage Network Skeleton - Waterbodies - Islands - Drainage Areas - Supplemental Drainage Features (Catchments, Hydrometric Gauging Stations, Station Basins) - Cartographic This metadata applies to the Drainage Network Skeleton, Waterbodies, Islands and Cartographic groups of featutes, of the hydrology theme. The Drainage Network Skeleton dataset is comprised of linear features: single line rivers, flow lines within waterbodies and ocean coastlines. Flow lines within waterbodies are virtual linear features representing the hydrological flow through area features (e.g. lakes, rivers and intermittent waterbodies). These flow lines complete the linear network where rivers would run through lakes, permitting hydrologic network analysis and cartographic generalization. This dataset is required for analytical applications. The coastline component of the Drainage Network Skeleton also delineates oceanic islands. The Waterbodies dataset is comprised of area features: lakes, intermittent waterbodies, islands, and rivers wide enough to be represented as an area feature (e.g. St. Lawrence River, Mackenzie River). In a few exceptional cases, islands had to be represented by "holes" in the polygons in the Waterbodies dataset. Some area features have been subdivided and several types of virtual linear features serve to separate them. Features in this dataset are linked (by an attribute) to their corresponding flow line in the Drainage Network Skeleton. Therefore the Waterbodies dataset may be used in conjunction with the Drainage Network Skeleton for analytical applications. The Islands dataset is comprised of area and linear features: islands within inland waters and the waterbodies and single line rivers within these islands. Oceanic islands are not included as they are part of the coastline component of the Drainage Network Skeleton dataset. The Islands dataset exists to complete the cartographic representation of Canadian hydrology. The Islands dataset is not logically connected with the Drainage Network Skeleton, and can not be used for analytical applications. It should be noted that flow lines of the Drainage Network Skeleton do not take into account the existence of islands and therefore do not necessarily flow around them. In a few exceptional cases, islands had to be represented by "holes" in the polygons in the Waterbodies dataset. Some islands themselves contain waterbodies and rivers, not significant for network analysis. However, in order to support a complete cartographic representation such waterbodies and rivers have been added to the Islands dataset. The Cartographic dataset is suitable for cartographic or display purposes, but not for analysis. It is a selection of features from the waterbodies, islands and drainage network skeleton datasets but does not include flow lines or other virtual features. The attributes of this data are a duplicate of the data selected from other dataset and are not repeated in this document.The Atlas Frameworks are a set of integrated base map layers which form part of a larger National Scale Frameworks data collection. These data have been compiled at a scale of 1:1 000 000 with the primary goal being to indicate correct relative positioning with other framework layers rather than absolute positional accuracy. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Vector Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Lambert Conformal Conic Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: coordinate pair Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: 0.066350 Ordinate Resolution: 0.066350 Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: meters Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: North American Datum of 1983 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System 80 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, hydrographic network, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, lakes, terrestrial hydrosphere, hydrologic flow, polar, hydrology, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, surface water, hydrography, discharge, flow, hydrosphere, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, rivers, streams, new brunswick, drainage, river, geographic region, western hemisphere, lake, 
TITLE: Scandanavia (SCAND) Teleconnection Patterns from NOAA Climate Prediction Center. ABSTRACT: [Source: NOAA Climate Prediction Center, http:  www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov  ] The Scandinavia pattern (SCAND) consists of a primary circulation center which spans Scandinavia and large portions of the Arctic Ocean north of Siberia. Two additional weaker centers with opposite sign to the Scandinavia center are located over western Europe and over the Mongolia  western China sector. The Scandinavia pattern is a prominent mode of low frequency variability in all months except June and July, and has been previously referred to as the Eurasia-1 pattern by Barnston and Livezey (1987). The positive phase of this pattern is associated with positive height anomalies, sometimes reflecting major blocking anticyclones, over Scandinavia and western Russia, while the negative phase of the pattern is associated with negative height anomalies over these regions. The time series for the Scandinavia pattern also exhibits relatively large interseasonal, interannual and interdecadal variability. For example, a negative phase of the pattern dominated the circulation from early 1964 through mid-1968 and from mid-1986 through early 1993. Negative phases of the pattern have also been prominent during winter 1988 89, spring 1990, and winter spring 1991 92. In contrast, positive phases of the pattern were observed during much of 1972, 1976 and 1984.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, altitude, climate index, arctic, usa, noaa, forecast indices, geopotential height, scandinavia, northern hemisphere, sweden, climate indices, oscillations, europe, climate change, finland, polar, scandanavia pattern, models, earth science, ceos, northern europe, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, ocean, norway, atlantic ocean, geographic region, atmospheric circulation, eurasia, teleconnections, 
TITLE: AMSR-E Aqua Daily L3 Global Ascending Descending .25x.25 deg Ocean Grids. ABSTRACT: The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer - Earth Observing System (AMSR-E) instrument on the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS) Aqua satellite provides global passive microwave measurements of terrestrial, oceanic, and atmospheric variables for the investigation of water and energy cycles. Measurements of ocean variables improve our understanding of a wide variety of hydrological and radiative processes, including air-sea and air-ice interactions. The Level-2B ocean swath product (AE_Ocean) contains Sea Surface Temperature (SST) at 56 km and 38 km resolution, near-surface wind speed at 38 km and 21 km resolution, columnar water vapor at 21 km resolution, columnar cloud liquid water at 12 km resolution, and quality flags. All variables were measured over oceans and are generated from the Wentz algorithm. The Level-3 daily product (AE_DyOcn), weekly product (AE_WkOcn), and monthly product (AE_MoOcn) include SST, near-surface wind speed, columnar water vapor, and columnar cloud liquid water over oceans in a 0.25 degree by 0.25 degree grid, generated from AE_Ocean. Data are stored in Hierarchical Data Format - Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, and are available from 19 June 2002 to the present via FTP.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, nsidc, greenhouse gases, cloud precipitable water, eos, water temperature, ocean temperature, equatorial trade winds, echo, usa, noaa, liquid cloud water, columnar water vapor, aqua, cloud liquid water, imagery, global ocean, ocean water temperatures, sea surface temperature, amsr-e, vertically integrated cloud liquid water, column water vapor, remote sensing, cloud droplets, atmospheric water vapor, passive microwave, atmospheric winds, advanced microwave scanning radiometer-eos, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, columnar cloud water, sea surface winds, oceans, geographic region, indian ocean, eos pm-1, clouds, sea surface wind speeds, eosdis, earth science information partners program, precipitable water, ocean heat flux, ocean thermal energy, radiance, surface winds, ocean winds, near-surface wind speeds, pacific ocean, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, vertically integrated water vapor over oceans, daac, sea surface temperatures, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system, aqua, ae_dyocn, atlantic ocean, esip, 
TITLE: NCEP NCAR Arctic Marine Rawinsonde Archive. ABSTRACT: NCEP NCAR Arctic Marine Rawinsonde Archive, available via ftp, contains 17,659 marine rawinsonde reports for the region north of 65 degrees North. Its record extends from 1976 to 1996. These soundings have been extracted from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) rawinsonde archive of the National Meteorological Center (NMC) (now the National Center for Environmental Prediction, or NCEP). The NCEP NCAR Arctic Marine Rawinsonde Archive data set complements the Historical Arctic Rawinsonde Archive (HARA) for land stations and the Russian "North Pole" drifting station archive.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, altitude, atmospheric temperature, balloons, arctic, ship, air temperature, usa, noaa, atmospheric soundings, eosdis, marine, geopotential height, atmospheric pressure measurements, earth science information partners program, rawinsonde, rawinsondes, surface winds, polar, moored ship, wind speed, norwegian sea, earth science, wind direction, ceos, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, dewpoint depression, ships, earth observing system data information system, ocean, esip, geographic region, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Kapp Linne 2. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 39m deep borehole was drilled on the strandflat at Kapp Linne. Stratigraphy: 0-2m: coarse (gravel) beach deposit (dry beach ridge) 2-4.8m: sand and clay, some occurrences of silt. Cohesive. 4,8-6,2m: fine gravel 6,2-7,8m: bedrock. light-coloured 7,8-14,8m: dark-coloured 14,8-15,8m: light-coloured 15.8-38.8m: dark-coloured. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, kapp linn, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Weekly Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of algorithm estimates of global Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) reaching the surface obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS data products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html PAR is defined as the quantum energy flux from the Sun in the spectral range 400-700 nm. It is expressed in Einstein m2 day. The PAR model uses plane-parallel theory and assumes that the effects of clouds and clear atmosphere can be de-coupled. The planetary atmosphere is therefore modeled as a clear sky atmosphere positioned above a cloud layer. This approach was shown to be valid by Dedieu et al. (1987) and Frouin and Chertock (1992). For additional information about the algorithm see http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS seawifs_par_wfigs.pdf Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) is stored in two HDF files. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period; and a subordinate file, which contains the accumulated PAR data for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, global, eosdis, earth science information partners program, global ocean, ocean optics, par, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Seasonal Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Frontier Well Data for Hudson Bay - National Energy Board, Canada. ABSTRACT: This data set contains information on the location of wells drilled in the Hudson Bay Frontier areas regulated by the National Energy Board for which reports and data are no longer privileged. The information is supplied by industry pursuant to the Canada Oil and Gas Operations Act. Associated information may include well history reports, well logs, petrologic reports, velocity surveys, micropaleontological reports, well test reports, core analysis and so on. The information is provided publicly, pursuant to the Canada Petroleum Resources Act to promote safety of workers, protection of the environment, conservation of the hydrocarbon resources and to increase scientific knowledge and efficient utilization of hydrocarbon resources. The principle uses are expected to be the planning of hydrocarbon exploration programs and production operations, and scientific research, particularly geological stratigraphy and tectonics. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, geochemistry, gcmd, natural resources, mid-latitude, arctic, earth science, ceos, nunavut, canada, cgdi, oil, hudson bay, northern hemisphere, canada, north america, gas, rocks, minerals, geographic region, petroleum, western hemisphere, petroleum exploration, 
TITLE: Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) ARC003: Climate Data for Toolik Lake Area,Arctic Tundra, Alaska. ABSTRACT: LTER - Long-Term Ecological Research Program Toolik Lake, Arctic Tundra, Alaska (ARC) LTER ARC003 [Summary adapted from the LTER Core Data Set Catalog]: Climatic meteorological data for the Toolik Lake area were collected using an automated weather station with a datalogger. Parameters measured include lake water depth, temperature and light penetration to 2 m, wind speed and direction, precipitation, relative humidity, barometric pressure, pan evaporation (during non-frozen periods), air temperature, solar radiation, and soil temperature. Snow depth is collected by another group. Information about the Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Program can be obtained from: "http:  lternet.edu ". KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, barometric pressure, atmospheric temperature, alpine, tundra, arctic, lter, water temperature, lake temperature, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, north america, alaska, humidity, soil temperature, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, terrestrial hydrosphere, relative humidity, meteorology, wind speed, wind direction, solar radiation, terrestrial ecosystems, toolik lake, biosphere, atmospheric water vapor, surface water, atmospheric winds, water depth, water vapor, pan evaporation, geographic region, evaporation, atmospheric radiation, nsf, continent, lake water temperature, climatic data, air temperature, light transmission, usa, nsf, arc, long-term ecological research, united states of america, water quality, water chemistry, lakes, arc003, soils, surface winds, light penetration, polar, earth science, land surface, climate, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, ecosystems, lake water depth, 
TITLE: Environmental Atlas of the Beaufort Coastlands, Canada. ABSTRACT: The Environmental Atlas of the Beaufort Coastlands has been prepared by staff of the Geological Survey of Canada in collaboration with several external agencies, including Environment Canada, Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Natural Resources Canada, Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, the Canadian Museum of Civilization, and the National Energy Board of Canada. The Canadian Hydrographic Service, the Canadian Wildlife Service, Meteorological Service of Canada, and the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing have also contributed. This Atlas is supplemental to the Marine Science Atlas of the Beaufort Sea (Vol. 1 Sediments; Vol. 2 Geology and Geophysics) produced by the Geological Survey of Canada. It provides information on the environment and its protection, thus supporting the efforts of those developing and harvesting the natural resources, and helping to ensure that an awareness for the preservation of a native way of life is maintained. A major concern in the western Arctic region of Canada is the impact that global warming will have on the environment. This Atlas presents some of the baseline information to which future changes may be compared. The Atlas also highlights many environmental aspects, including permafrost, coastal erosion and wildlife, that may be particularly sensitive to climatic changes.This Atlas provides background on the physical environment. Furthermore, it is designed to show the relationship of wildlife to the physical aspects of the coastlands, with a view toward understanding the former as a sustainable resource for the people of the region. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, geomorphology, gcmd, arctic, beaufort coastlands, northern hemisphere, north america, human dimensions, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, climate change, wildlife, polar, erosion, sedimentation, hydrology, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, beaufort sea, snow, ice temperature, animals, vertebrates, environment, canada, cgdi, mammals, permafrost, ocean, canada, erosion, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Column Liquid Water Data at Ny-Alesund, Svalbird. ABSTRACT: Since September 1991, a column of liquid water was measured every 1 minute using a microwave radiometer at Ny-Alesund.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, cloud types, svalbard and jan mayen, fixed observation stations, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, ceos, clouds, msr, japan, jst, svalbard, microwave scanning radiometer, ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, spitzbergen, 
TITLE: The Airborne Antarctic Ozone Experiment (AAOE), Including Halley Bay Ozonesonde Data on CD-ROM. ABSTRACT: This CD-ROM contains data pertaining to the Airborne Antarctic Ozone Experiment (AAOE) which was based in Punta Arenas, Chile during August and September 1987. The data was primarily collected onboard the NASA ER-2 and DC-8 aircraft which flew into the ozone hole, along with ozonesonde data collected from April through November at 4 Antarctic stations--Halley Bay, McMurdo, Palmer Station, and the South Pole. The experiment tested the chemical and dynamical theories of the ozone hole using the aircraft data in theoretical computer models of the chemistry and dynamics of the stratosphere. The mission was organized and funded by NASA, NOAA, NSF, universities, Chemical Manufacturer's Association, and meteorological agencies overseas. The NASA ER-2 is a high altitude research aircraft that sampled air at those altitudes where the ozone hole was at its most intense, with data gathered on the air mass within the confines of the hole itself. The ER-2 collected information on three-dimensional winds, pressure, temperature, temperature profiles + - 1 km from flight level, chlorine monoxide, bromine monoxide, ozone, nitric oxide, reactive nitrogen, total water, nitrous oxide, whole air sampling, condensation nuclei, aerosol size distribution and composition, and cloud particle images and sizes. The DC-8 aircraft flew at the lowermost extremities of the hole and deployed a combination of remote sounding of the overlying atmosphere with some in situ sampling. Vertical distributions of ozone and aerosols above the cruising altitude of the aircraft and within the hole were mapped. The DC-8 collected ozone and aerosol profiles overhead by LIDAR; and measured ozone, bromine oxide, OClO, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, and hydrogen chloride. In situ methods yielded ozone, total water, and whole air sampling. This CD-ROM also contains the results of the ozonesonde program at Halley Bay (76 degrees South, 27 degrees West) in 1987, where one file corresponds to one ozonesonde ascent. Instances of abnormal conditions affecting the data are noted. All files within this release are standard ASCII files with variable length records. The file naming convention uses a two character prefix to identify the instrument followed by a six digit number giving the year, month, and day (GMT) of the flight (or balloon launch). A three character name as in ER2, DC8, or OZn is used to denote the data is from either the ER-2, DC-8, or ozonesonde (OZ1 for the first launch, OZ2 for the second launch on a particular day).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, total ozone mapping spectrometer, atmospheric temperature, light detection and ranging, arctic, halocarbons and halogens, usa, noaa, photometers, nasa er-2, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, atmospheric pressure measurements, nimbus-7, interferometers, humidity, douglas dc-8, mark iv interferometer, air quality, nitric oxide, reactive nitrogen, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, o3, hydrogen chloride, carbon monoxide, meteorological measurement system, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, spectrometers, profilers, bromine oxide, amd, geographic region, continent, aerosol particle properties, dc-8, aerosols, nitrous oxide, co2, reactive nitrogen oxides, air temperature, clouds, troposphere, fourier transform spectrometers, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, ozone, airborne antarctic ozone experiment, mms, toms, droplet concentration, size, lidar, aaoe, cloud condensation nuclei, stratosphere, surface winds, polar, vertical location, carbon dioxide, cfc, amd, us, ftir spectrometer, ozonesondes, temperature profilers, cd-rom, cloud types, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, n2o, co, atmospheric pressure, chlorine monoxide, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, cloud amount, frequency, nitrogen oxides, upper air, hygrometers, 
TITLE: Atmospheric CH4 Records from Sites in the NOAA CMDL Air Sampling Network, in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: Monthly atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations were obtained from 35 globally distributed monitoring sites as part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climate Diagnostic Monitoring Laboratory (NOAA CMDL). Data were collected in glass flasks and methane concentrations were determined by gas chromatography. The data records represent methane concentrations for the modern period from 1983 to 1992. The 35 monitoring site records are as follows: 1) Alert, Northwest Territories, Canada (1985-1992) 2) Amsterdam Island, Indian Ocean (1983-1990) 3) Ascension Island (UK), South Atlantic Ocean (1983-1992) 4) Azores, Terceira Island, North Atlantic Ocean (1983-1992) 5) Barbados, (Ragged Point), Atlantic Ocean 6) Barrow, Alaska (1983-1992) 7) Bermuda (East, St. David's Head) (1989-1992) 8) Bermuda (West, Southhampton) (1989-1992) 9) Cape Grim, Tasmania, Australia (1984-1992) 10) Cape Kumukahi, Hawaii (1983-1992) 11) Cape Meares, Oregon (1983-1992) 12) Christmas Island, South Pacific Ocean (1984-1992) 13) Cold Bay, Alaska (1983-1992) 14) Guam, Mariana Islands, Pacific Ocean (1983-1992) 15) Halley Bay, Antarctica (1983-1991) 16) Izana, Canary islands, Spain (1991-1992) 17) Key Biscayne, Florida (1983-1992) 18) Mace Head, County Galway, Ireland (1991-1992) 19) Mauna Loa, Hawaii (1983-1992) 20) Midway Islands (Sand Island), Pacific Ocean (1985-1992) 21) Mould Bay, Northwest Territories, Canada (1983-1992) 22) Niwot Ridge, Colorado (1983-1992) 23) Olympic Peninsula, Washington (1985-1990) 24) Pacific Ocean, Ships Welligton Star and Southland Star (1986-1992) 25) Palmer Station, Antarctica (1983-1992) 26) Qinghai Province, Peoples Republic of China (1991-1992) 27) American Samoa (Cape Matatula), Pacific Ocean (1983-1992) 28) Seychelles (Mahe Island), Indian Ocean (1983-1992) 29) Shemya Island, Alaska (1985-1992) 30) South Georgia Island, Atlantic Ocean (1989-1991) 31) South Pole, Antarctica (1983-1992) 32) Ocean Station 'M', North Atlantic Ocean (1983-1992) 33) Syowa Station, Antarctica (1986-1992) 34) Tae-ahn Peninsula, South Korea (1991-1992) 35) Virgin Islands (St. Croix) (1983-1990) Data from all 35 sites are tabulated in the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center's (CDIAC's) 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change' (Bod et al, eds., 1991) as monthly methane concentrations in parts per billion by volume (ppbv). These data are also available electronically as Numeric Data Package NDP-038 (Steele and Lang, 1991) from CDIAC: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub ndp038" Data from individual flask samples may also be obtained from P. Lang or E. Dlugokencky at NOAA CMDL, 325 Broadway, Boulder, CO 80303-3328 as given in Lang, et al. (1990a,b) Please use the following citation for this dataset: Dlugokencky, E.J., P.M. Lang, K.A. Masarie, and L.P. Steele. 1994. 'Atmospheric CH4 records from sites in the NOAA CMDL air sampling network'. pp. 274-350. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change', ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA. Global CH4 data from NOAA CMDL are tabulated in the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center's (CDIAC's) 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change' (Boden, et al, eds., 1994) as depth, year, and CH4 concentration (ppmv) and is available via ftp: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 ch4 " NOTE: The NOAA CMDL measurements of atmospheric methane mixing ratios is available on the NOAA CMDL anonymous FTP site for the period 1983-1992. The FTP site is located at "ftp:  ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov ccg ch4 flask" or FTP to ftp.cmdl.noaa.gov and cd to  ccg ch4 flask. CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for all data available in CDIAC's anonymous FTP in pub trends93 ch4. The FTP address is CDIAC.ESD.ORNL.GOV and 128.219.24.36 and input your email address as the password. The data bases are arranged as subdirectories in  pub trends93  (co2, ch4, trace, emiss, precip, and temp) that correspond to major chapter headings in Trends '93. The data files are arranged as xxxxx.yyy where xxxxx is the name of the station, country, site, region, or principle investigator and yyy is the page number in Trends '93 (example: vostok.231 refers to the Vostok ice core dataset as tabulated on page 231.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, mace head, izana, amsterdam island, greenhouse effect, arctic, tae-ahn peninsula, noaa geophysical monitoring for climatic change stations, north america, cold bay, ground stations, qinghai province, cape kumukahi, idn_node gsfc, cdiac, mould bay, climate change, barrow, christmas island, ascension island, trace gases, trace species, seychelles, guam, australia, antarctica, atmospheric chemistry, cape grim, global warming, gas chromatographs, cape meares, ocean, methane, mauna loa, amd, virgin islands, geographic region, shemya island, indian ocean, geophysical monitoring for climate change (noaa), continent, bermuda, climate monitoring and diagnostics laboratory (noaa), greenhouse gas, halley bay, alert, south georgia island, key biscayne, trends '93, cmdl, europe, polar, amd, us, cd-rom, ftp, noaa climate monitoring diagnostics laboratory stations, australia, new zealand, pacific ocean, olympic peninsula, asia, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, ch4, flask samples, ocean station "m", carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, samoa, gmcc, niwot ridge, palmer station, midway islands, syowa station, atlantic ocean, azores, barbados, south pole, 
TITLE: Soil Temperatures for Happy Valley and Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set contains hourly and daily-averaged soil temperatures from Happy Valley and Barrow, Alaska, from 19 August 1993 to 31 August 2004. Data are in comma-delimited or space-delimited ASCII text format, and are available via FTP. The research project was funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Geography and Regional Sciences and Arctic System Science (ARCSS) programs, grant numbers OPP 9214897, SES 9308334, OPP 9529783, and OPP 9732051.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, soil temperature, soils, ground-based observations, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, soil temperatures, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, geographic region, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Digisonde Portable Sounder 4 data on the Zhongshan station, Antarctica, Year 1995. ABSTRACT: The DPS-4, developed by the University of Masachusetts at Lowell Center for Atmospheric Research (ULCAR), is a pulse HF Doppler radar controlled by a computer. It can measure the amplitude, phase, time delay, frequency, Doppler shifts, and angle of arrival and wave polarization from ionospheric echoes. The data is stored originally in a quarter-inch cartridage and retrieved by the Library software and saved on CDR disks eventually.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic ocean, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, zhongshan station, digisondes, ocean, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, solar activity, economic resources, amd, human dimensions, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Polar Open Forum for junior and high school children. ABSTRACT: The International Council for Science (ICSU) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) are planning an International Polar Year (IPY) in 2007~2008 to mark the 50th anniversary of the International Geophysical Year (IGY). A variety of international research organizations have announced their participation and submitted proposals for Arctic and Antarctic research. During the IPY, the Science Council of Japan and NIPR are planning to hold a Polar Open Forum for junior and high school aged children in order to awaken interest in polar studies in the next generation. The catchphrase of the forum will be Arctic and Antarctic Proposals from School Children. NIPR called for polar research proposals from school children and held a meeting to announce the winning proposals. The research in the winning proposal will be carried out by the Japanese Antarctic Research Expedition (JARE) and the Arctic Research Group, and the results reported to the school that submitted the proposal.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, amd, jp, antarctica, human health, ipy, international polar year, amd, human dimensions, geographic region, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Daily Mesosphere Wind Estimates (Meteor Winds) by Fourier Analysis for Stations in Antarctica, Arctic Ocean, and Europe. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of meridional and zonal daily winds accompanied with hourly meteor rates, as measured by ground-based meteor radar. The hourly winds were obtained at the height interval of 92-95 km using meteor radars with no angle gauges. The data were recorded at Molodezhnaya (Antarctica), Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean), Obninsk, USSR, and Khulungsborn, Germany. Radar characteristics include wave length = 9m, peak power = 50-70 kw, pulse length = 20-30 mks, pulse repetition = 500 pps, sensitivity = 2-3 mkv, 5-elements yagi antennae, and beam width = 35 degrees. The data coverage for the 4 stations spans 5 years. The term 'meteor wind' is used for the mesosphere wind estimates derived from meteor trail drifts measurements. Ionized meteor trails are produced by meteoroids (meteor particles) which enter the Earth's atmosphere. A meteor trail moves in the atmosphere due to the neutral wind and magnetic field. The radial component of this movement is measured using meteor radar. Estimates of 'meteor wind' are derived for each direction (North, South, East, West) from the set of measurements of radial components using statistical characteristics of meteor parameter distributions and parameters of antenna pattern. The 'hourly meteor rate' which is the number of registered meteors for which reliable estimates of radial components can be obtained can also be determined. Meteoroids occur in the height interval 80-100 km and are centered at 92-95 km (maximum for the apex time, near 6 a.m. LT, and minimum for anti-apex time, near 6 p.m. LT ). A set of hourly 'meteor wind' estimates for each day is processed using a conventional Fourier procedure which produces estimates of a constant term associated with the prevailing wind, and four harmonics (variances), associated with diurnal, semidiurnal, 8-hour and 6-hour components of wind. Each component (being a random value) is accompanied with an estimate of sample standard deviation. The derived prevailing wind is not climatological as it varies from day to day.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, continent, arctic ocean, mid-latitude, arctic, ionosphere, mesosphere winds, daily data, mesosphere, ground stations, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, vertical location, polar, hourly data, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, radio detection and ranging, atmospheric winds, radar, ocean, climatology, upper air, amd, geographic region, statistics, 
TITLE: Areas of Critical Environmental Concern in Western Alaska, BLM. ABSTRACT: The data base contains land cover of selected areas of critical environmental concern falling within certain watersheds within the specified geographical coverage. The data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads. This area encompasses the Norton Bay, Unalakleet, Holy Cross, Iditarod, and Sleetmute 1:250,000 scale U.S. Geological Survey quadrangles; extraction of land cover acreages by watershed within Bureau of Land Management lands.. KEYWORD: continent, watershed, landcover, arctic, aedd, vegetation, field geology, oil, united states of america, north america, alaska, land, ground stations, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, wildlife, elevation, blm, hydrology, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, maps, charts, watershed characteristics, surface water, alaska directory, coast, environment, wildlife distribution, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Ice Temperatures. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology common.html" ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Commonwealth Glacier meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes ice temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, lter, arctic, ice temperature, ice, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, glacier, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, antarctica, snow, ice temperature, glaciers, ice sheets, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km, Version 5. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km (MYD29) data set contains fields for sea ice by reflectance, sea ice by reflectance pixel Quality Assessment (QA), Ice Surface Temperature (IST), IST pixel QA, latitudes, and longitudes in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective characteristics. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 4 July 2002 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, earth observing system, aqua, global change, climatology, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Permafrost temperature - Gruvefjellet. ABSTRACT: For monitoring of permafrost temperature, this 5m deep borehole was drilled 464 m a.s.l. on the Gruvefjellet plateau. Online data transfer. Stratigraphy: 0.8m regolith removed prior to drilling. Increasing ice content with depth. 0.8-1.3m: Very ice-rich 1.3-5.5m: Decreasing ice content. KEYWORD: the thermal state of permafrost, svalbard and jan mayen, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, adventdalen, tsp, arctic, no, tsp-norway, ipy, permafrost, ocean, frozen ground, soil temperature, atlantic ocean, permafrost observatory project: a contribution to the thermal state of permafrost in norway and svalbard, 
TITLE: Concentrations of atmospheric greenhouse gases in Ny Aalesund. ABSTRACT: Weekly data of the concentrations of atmospheric CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6 and O2 N2 ratio and stable isotope ratios of CO2 and CH4.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, polar, carbon dioxide, nitrogen compounds, nitrous oxide, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, ipy, ocean, methane, international polar year, atlantic ocean, geographic region, arctic, jp, 
TITLE: Acidic Tussock Tundra Model Output from MBL-GEM for Toolik Lake, 1921-2144, and the Kuparuk River Basin, 1995. ABSTRACT: This data set contains model input and output data for four simulations of varying time periods and spatial coverage. The first two simulations are for acidic tussock tundra in the Toolik Lake region of the Kuparuk River watershed for the years 1921 to 2144. Each of these simulations is made up of two parts. The first part is based upon a reconstruction of historical climate variables from 1921 to 1995, while the second part is based upon a doubling of C02 and the concurrent changes in temperature, soil moisture, and irradiance from 1996 to 2144. The historical period is the same for both simulations. The future period differs between the two simulations: One simulation assumes a direct relationship between soil moisture and temperature (i.e., warmer and wetter), and the other assumes an inverse relationship between soil moisture and temperature (i.e., warmer and drier). The climate drivers used for the simulations are included as part of this dataset. The second two simulations are for acidic tussock tundra throughout the entire Kuparuk River basin for 1995 only. The first simulation uses the reconstructed 1995 climate. The second simulation uses the same climate with an increase in soil moisture. The model output data consist of 34 variables including photosynthesis, plant and soil respiration, net primary production, net mineralization, and carbon and nitrogen stocks in plant tissues and soils.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nitrogen translocated from foliage, opp9318530, root nitrogen, modeling, respiration rate, microbial respiration, resp_veg, ecological dynamics, arctic, arcss052, usa, noaa, arctic system science, plant respiration, total plant nitrogen, photosynthesis, sapwood carbon, carbon, alaska, nitrogen loss from ecosystem, models, wfps, mbl-gem model, nitrogen deposition, nitrogen inputs, carbon in litter fall, biosphere, soil nitrogen, opp9318529, extractives carbon, leaf carbon, opp-9318530, nitrogen in litter fall, environmental modeling, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, total soil carbon, air temperature, sapwood nitrogen, usa, nsf, temperature, opp-9318529, soils, polar, extractives nitrogen, lignin nitrogen, net primary production, opp-9614038, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, net nitrogen mineralization, opp9614038, nsidc, atmospheric temperature, deb-9211775, humus carbon, atmospheric co2, cellulose carbon, leaf nitrogen, north america, soil inorganic nitrogen, percent water filled pore space, par, arctic system science data coordination center, gpp, cellulose nitrogen, office of polar programs, national science foundation, ecosystem functions, heartwood nitrogen, total plant carbon, litter characteristics, geographic region, arcss, resp_soil, kuparuk river basin, soil respiration, total ecosystem carbon, total ecosystem nitrogen, vegetation, root carbon, united states of america, deb9211775, nitrogen, earth science, lignin carbon, ceos, photosynthetically active radiation, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, npp, humus nitrogen, nitrogen uptake, heartwood carbon, leaf characteristics, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Offshore, Coastal and Selected Lakes Geophysical Survey Tracks - Expedition Database. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes track locations of geophysical data collected as part of research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic). Geophysical data types collected on cruises include seismics, sidescan sonar, huntec, multibeam, bathymetry, reflection, refraction, magnetics and rovs collecting seabed videos, to name a few. Track locations were taken at anywhere from 30 to 5 second intervals.Research cruise ship navigation data are collected and archived in order to show where the Geologial Survey of Canada (Atlantic) have conducted seabed surveys and to provide a reference location as well as the kinds of geophysical data collected during those surveys. This data is typically extracted (in ASCII format) to generate vector track lines in a variety of GIS formats. Additionally, the digital navigation data are often used to further process the raw digital geophysical data collected aboard the research vessels. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, coastal arctic canada, gomodp, mid-latitude, arctic, none, northern hemisphere, north america, freshwater lakes, eastern canada, gulf of maine, geodetics, gravity, bay of fundy, gulf of maine ocean data partnership, arctic archipelego, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, ocean, canada, scotian shelf, geographic region, western hemisphere, scotian slope, continent, gcmd, seismology, north atlantic ocean, labrador sea, browns bank, northeast newfoundland shelf, marine, marine geology, united states of america, grand banks of newfoundland, baffin bay, seismic surface waves, gulf of st. lawrence, seismic body waves, polar, maine, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, geophysics, sable island gulley, beaufort sea, emerald basin, flemish cap, labrador shelf, western canada, hudson straight, gravity, flemish pass, davis straight, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) Climate Data Library. ABSTRACT: The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) Climate Data Library contains a wide variety of primarily oceanographic and atmospheric data sets. All of the data is available online and most can be viewed through the Data Library's Data Viewer. The Data Viewer allows the user to choose the data desired, make plots, tables, files, subset files, etc. The data library is accessible from: "http:  ingrid.ldgo.columbia.edu " The LDEO Data Viewer can deliver data to the user as data files (netCDF and HDF), as tables (html), and in a variety of plots (line, contour, color, vector) and plot formats (PostScript and gif). processing of the data, particularly averaging can be requested. The LDEO climatological datasets consist of the following: ARCTIC - Arctic Station data consisting of tritium, tritium age, tritium helium age, depth, ocean fraction, ice fraction, river runoff fraction, delta oxygen 18, salinity, silicate, potential temperature, and tritium vintage age. BLACK ROCK FOREST - Black Rock Forest lowland data consisting of dew point, maximum minimum barometric pressure, relative humidity, temperature, and wind speed, solar radiation, photosynthetically active radiation, precipitation, and soil temperature. CAYAN MONTHLY HEAT FLUX - Dataset created by Dr. Daniel R. Cayan from Scripps Institution of Oceanography consists of monthly latent, sensible, and net heat flux, solar and terrestrial irradiance. See Cayan (1992). CORAL - Coral records from D.E. Hunter (Scripps Institution of Oceanography) from Republic of Seychelles. Data set consists of delta 18 oxygen isotopes from 1846-1995. See Charles, et al. (1997). DASILVA - Atlas of Marine Surface Data 1994: A five volume data series depicting the world's seasonal and yearly variations of the surface marine atmosphere. See: DaSilva, et al (1994). EC293 - Zonal and meridional wind stress. ECHAM - ECHAM model run of surface stresses and SST from 1949-1990 by Dr. Mojib LatifMax-Planck-Institut fuer Meteorologie Bundesstr. 55, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany. ECOSYSTEMS - Holdridge Life Zone, Matthews Vegetation Index, and Olson Ecosystem Complexes LEVITUS CLIMATOLOGIES - uniformly gridded climatologies of oceanic variables as monthly (temperature), seasonal (temperature and salinity), yearly mean (temperature, salinity, PO4, NO3, SiO2, O2), and yearly mean derived quantities (pressure, density, density anomaly, buoyancy frequency) by Levitus (1982). HELLERMAN CLIMATOLOGICAL WIND STRESS - data contains monthly averaged observations from 1870-1976 on 2x2 degree lat-lon grids for air temperature, sea temperature, wind speed, wind stability, wind vectors and wind stress (Hellerman and Rosenstein, 1983) ICE CORE - This data set consists of CO2 data from three ice core measurements at the GRIP site in Greenland, Quelccaya in Peru, and Vostok in Antarctica. Data consists of oxygen isotopes (o18 o16) ratios. See: Dansgaard et. al (1993), Thompson and Mosley-Thompson (1989), and Jouzel et al (1987). OBERHUBER COADS CLIMATOLOGY - an atlas of monthly heat fluxes and radiation budget over the oceans based on COADS for the period 1950-1979 on a 2x2 degree grid including air temperature, precipitation, humidity, cloud cover, wind speed, SLP, salinity, solar radiation, heat flux,buoyancy flux (Oberhuber, 1988) OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (OSU) CLIMATOLOGY - Climatologies compiled by Esbensen and Kushnir (1981) (heat budget) and Han and Lee (wind stress) on 5x5 degree lat-lon grids. Data include wind speed, slp, SST, sea air temperature difference, air temperature, humidity, sea air humidity difference, cloudiness, solar radiation, and heat flux. ISCCP CLOUD COVER DATA - data from the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project. IRI - Eastern Pacific Pelagic Fisheries. Data set consists of weekly anchovy (anchoveta) fishing catches and corresponding climate variables from Peru and Chile. IRI-ARCS - modeling climate parameters from the AMIP. See: "http:  ingrid.ldeo.columbia.edu SOURCES .IRI-ARCS outline.html" JONES - air temperature and sea surface temperature anomalies from P.D. Jones at University of East Anglia. KAPLAN - Kaplan, et al. sea surface temperature (SST) and sea level pressure anomalies. See Kaplan, et al (1998) and Cane, et al (1997). KEELING - Carbon dioxide (CO2) measurements from Mauna Loa, Hawaii by C. Keeling. See: "http:  ingrid.ldeo.columbia.edu SOURCES .KEELING .MAUNA_LOA.html" LDEO - Deep sea cores and partial CO2 (pCO2) measurements from Takahashi, et al (1997). LITHOSPHERE - Earthquake and Volcano data. ERBE SRB DATA - Surface radiation budget data from the Earth Radiation Budget Experiment (ERBE) on ERBS, NOAA-9 and NOAA-10 (Li and Leighton, 1993). NASA - Datasets include ERBE ERBS total clear sky cloud forcing climatologies, precipitation estimates from SSM I for the Global Precipitation Climatology Project (GPCP), ISCCP D2 cloud data, ISLSCP global land data sets (soils, cloud radiation, snow cover, vegetation index (NDVI). NCAR - Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI). NOAA - NOAA data sets including: monthly gridded precipitation from stations in the Global Climate Perspectives System, temperature and precipitation from the Global Historical Climatological Network (GHCN), climate data from the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), NCEP reanalysis, marine geological samples from NGDC, and World Ocean Atlas 1998 data. REVERDIN - zonal and meridional currents from G. Reverdin (See Reverdin, 1994). RIVER - River flow data from Australia. SANDWELL - Sea floor topography from D. T. Sandwell (Scripps). SHIPDRIFT DATA - surface velocity data. SERVAIN MEAN WIND AND SST DATA - Mean data over 25 year period from 1964-1988 (Servain, 1991). SOC - Global air-sea heat and momentum flux climatology from Southampton Oceanography Centre. TRENBERTH - global ocean wind stress climatology based on ECMWF analyses. UEA - Data sets from the Climate Research Unit of University of East Anglia. Includes Jones land and ocean temperature analomalies and Hulme global precipitation. UMD - Global ocean parameters including: salinity, surface height, temperature, surface meridional and zonal wind stress, meridional and zonal velocity, and depth. See: Carton, et al (1999). USGS - Hydo-Climate Data Network streamflow data. WORLDBATH and WORLDBATH432 - Bathymetry from the U.S. Navy ETOPO5 5x5 minute topography. CHRISTINE MEAN WIND STRESS AND WIND FIELD DATA RASMUSSEN-CARPENTER CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA - Data from NMC, USAF, Navy, ESSPO, CAC and U. Wisconsin consists of slp, temperature, geopotential height, wind components, humidity, SST, and vorticity (Rasmussen and Carpenter, 1982). CAC SST CLIMATOLOGY - Observed SST monthly climatology from Climate Analysis Center. FSU PSEUDO WIND STRESS - Observed pseudo wind stress, mean wind stress, and wind stress anomalies from Florida State University (FSU). WEARE SURFACE DATA - Averaged surface data by Weare averaged over 1957-1976 including wind speed, pressure, cloudiness,solar radiation, heat fluxes, SST, air temperature, humidity (Weare, et al., 1980). COADS - Comprehensive Ocean-Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) Trimmed Monthly Summaries from 1854-1979 on 2x2 degree lat-lon grid. Data consists of air temperature, SST, wind, pressure, humidity, cloudiness. CARDONE - ECMWF 5 day average wind stress Cardone Level 2B data. NMC WIND STRESS - NMC derived wind stress anomalies for tropical Pacific 1989-1993. AMSTRESS - Wind stresses from Alain Morliere's model. GISS10YN - 10 year mean anomalies from GISS A Scenario simulation. CAC SST DATA - CAC Monthly SST and SST anomalies, smoothed SST and smoothed SST anomalies EASTERN PACIFIC COASTAL UPWELLING - Consists of cadmium, nitrate, nitrite, phosphate, salinity, and silicate data since 1960. See: "http:  ingrid.ldeo.columbia.edu SOURCES .EPCU .dataset_documentation.html" ECMWF GRIDDED ANALYSES - Gridded global analyses from the European Center for Medium range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) for the period 1985-1992. Data include temperature, zonal and meridional velocity and geopotential. ENSO CLIMATE CHANGE INDICES - consists of sea level pressure anomalies from Darwin - Easter Island, Hansen global temperature anomalies, India summer monsoon rainfall, North Atlantic Oscillation Index (NAOI) seal level pressure difference, Extended, Kaplan, and NCEP SST anomalies, Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) sea level pressure anomalies, Tahiti sea level pressure GOSECS - Geochemical Ocean Sections Study: 3-D distribution of chemical, isotopic, and radiochemical tracers in the ocean. Data consists of Carbon-13 and -14 (C-13, C-14), depth, nitrite, nitrate, oxygen, partial CO2 (pCO2), phosphate, pressure, salinity, sigma, silicate, total alkalinity, total CO2 (tCO2), temperature, potential temperature, and tritium. OORT ATMOSPHERIC CIRCULATION STATISTICS - Global Atmospheric Circulation statistics from Oort (1983) based on global rawindsonde data, surface land and surface ship data. TOPOGRAPHY DATA - US Navy bathymetry data plus land heights at 5' x 5'resolution (ETOPO5) and at 1x1 degree resolution. PALEOTOPOGRAPHY - Variation of surface ice and water cover since the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) by Peltier (1994) based on CLIMAP data set. EQUATORIAL PACIFIC SSTA FORECASTS - Forecast SST fields using the Zebiak and Cane (1987) coupled atmosphere-ocean model. SSTA fields are analyzed in terms of an ENSO index. GLOBAL OCEAN SURFACE TEMPERATURE ATLAS (GOSTA) - The January 1993 version of the GOSTA (Bottomley, 1990) referred to as ATLAS7. The atlas is a compilation of marine observations from UKMO and FNOC. Data are on a 5x5 degree grid.. KEYWORD: surface climatologies, air-sea interactions, boundary layer winds, ecological dynamics, ocean temperature, ldeo, precipitation, netcdf, atmospheric pressure measurements, sst, oort, net radiation, humidity, soil temperature, pacific decadal oscillation, terrestrial hydrosphere, sea surface temperature, vegetation index, models, latent heat flux, atmospheric phenomena, wind speed, tracers, solar radiation, atmospheric water vapor, animals, vertebrates, atmospheric chemistry, nitrite, oceans, land use classes, tree rings, meridional moisture flux, sea level pressure, ocean, sst indices, global, air temperature, paleoclimate, paleo stop date, quaternary, fractional cloudiness, esbensen, surface winds, density, tco2, solar irradiance, population dynamics, atmospheric pressure, pressure anomalies, pseudo wind stress, anchovy, dods, fish, fsu wind stress, esip, partial co2, oxygen isotopes, teleconnections, distributed oceanographic data system, upper level winds, precipitation amount, etopo5, wind velocity, water pressure, levitus, snow cover, rawinsondes, surface radiation budget, radionuclides, trace gases, trace species, hellerman, earth radiation budget satellite, topography, ray-finned fishes, longwave chi sensitivity coefficient, shortwave cloud sensitivity coefficient, maximum, minimum temperature, christine wind stress, ocean pressure, noaa poes, nitrate, climate indicators, agriculture, ocean, lake records, paleo start date 160,000 ybp, snow, ice chemistry, heat flux, snow, ice, vertical location, carbon dioxide, ocean winds, pco2, phosphate, outgoing longwave radiation, land surface, enso, anchovies, herrings, hdf, potential temperature, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, silicate, sea surface height, drought, weare surface data, species, population interactions, rivers, streams, ice core records, ssta, naoi, atmosphere, ocean currents, biological classification, el nino southern oscillation, precipitation rate, water temperature, north atlantic oscillation, noaa polar orbiting environmental satellites, open-source project for a network data access protocol, buoys, osu, total co2, carbon, zonal wind stress, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, nao, albedo, tritium, ocean chemistry, ecmwf, relative humidity, sensible heat flux, land use, land cover, biosphere, alkalinity, atmospheric winds, discharge, flow, ships, cloud cover, radiocarbon, gosic, atmospheric radiation, sediments, sea level specific humidity, sea level air density, boundary layer, seismology, co2, wind fields, geopotential height, stratigraphic sequence, seafloor topography, ocean tracers, isccp, soils, marine sediments, coads, cryosphere, carbon cycle, climate, cloud amount, frequency, paleotopography, pdsi, solid earth, terrain elevation, atmospheric temperature, specific humidity, vegetation species, earthquake occurrences, soi, oberhuber, servain winds, sea surface topography, erbs, isotopes, shipdrift, gfdl, drought, precipitation indices, oxygen, land records, kaplan sst index, erbe, net heat flux, gtos, temperature anomalies, north atlantic oscillation index, wind stress, meridional heat flux, pelagic habitat, rasmussen-carpenter sst, surface water, bathymetry, seafloor topography, water vapor, climatology, cadmium, coral deposits, salinity, density, geographic region, opendap, snow depth, g3os, altitude, cac, cenozoic, vegetation, palmer drought severity index, clouds, troposphere, trace elements, meridional wind stress, earth science information partners program, ocean friction velocity, holdridge life zones, stratosphere, salinity, southern oscillation index, tems, srb, earth radiation budget experiment, total alkalinity, gosta, earth science, volcanoes, photosynthetically active radiation, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, land resources, ocean heat budget, circulation, ecosystems, ocean circulation, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Seasonal Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. Aqua MODIS SST binned products consist of: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Glacier Outlines for Novaya Zemlya Archipelago (Part II). ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for Novaya Zemlya (part 2) derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Norwegian Marine Surface Data. ABSTRACT: Source data archives * Arctic region Norwegian ship logbook data. Digitized in Russia, St. Petersburg, by Ecoshelf. * Norwegian Logbook data from Wishman et al, circa 1995-1996. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, polar, atmospheric temperature, arctic, earth science, ocean temperature, air temperature, ships, ocean weather stations, usa, ncar, ocean, oceans, geographic region, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: Dataset of Marine Chemistry of Southern Ocean in CHINARE22 in 2005-2006. ABSTRACT: These samples were collected by CHINARE-22 in Przdy Bay,Antarctic during DCE 2005 and JAN 2006.There were 29 stations and 169 samples.Dissolved oxygen,Chlorophyll a,Silicate,Nitrate,Nitrite,Ammonium and Phosphate were determined respectively.. KEYWORD: polar, arctic ocean, ocean chemistry, biogenic silica, southern ocean, marine chemistry, arctic, earth science, ceos, carbon cycle, biogeochemistry, nutrients, ships, chla, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, geographic region, south pole, sediments, 
TITLE: COMMONWEALTH GLACIER METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Soil Temperatures. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes soil temperature measurements as recorded by temperature probes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: continent, polar, amd, us, explorer's cove, meteorology, lter, earth science, ceos, land surface, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, agriculture, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, temperature, amd, soil temperature, geographic region, soils, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: CODAR Real time vector fields: standard. ABSTRACT: CODAR is used to measure the surface currents of the coastal ocean. A transmitter sends out a radio frequency that bounces off the ocean surface and back to a receiver antenna. Using this information and the principles of the Doppler shift, CODAR is able to calculate the speed and direction of the surface current. These calculations are made at about every half mile across the surface and extend as far as about twenty miles offshore. The following Data is available online: Raw Vector Field: The raw surface current is the unprocessed data measured by CODAR. Therefore these velocity fields are the summation of all sources of current, including tides and wind. Tidal Vector Field: This vector field represents the component of the raw velocity that is caused by tidal forcing. Detided Vector Field: The detided vector field contains all the surface currents shown in the raw velocity field with the exception of the tidal currents. Using the above periods, a predicted tide is calculated and then subtracted from the raw data field. Low-pass Vector Field: The low-pass surface current field is representative of the second step of data processing. A low-pass filter is applied to the detided data to further eliminate any other currents with a period less than 30 hours. The data is delayed three hours because the filter needs information up to three hours after the time of calculation. High-pass Vector Field: These high frequency currents are calculated by subtracting the low-pass field from the detided field. Therefore, These currents have periods less than thirty hours and do not include the tides.. KEYWORD: continent, coastal processes, tidal height, north america, tidal components, earth science, new jersey, oceans, usa, nasa, tides, tidal currents, 
TITLE: Summer Surface Hydrographic Measurements in the Laptev Sea, 1980 to 2000. ABSTRACT: The data set compiled here consists of surface hydrographic data, including temperature and salinity, from the Laptev Sea. Data were collected during the summers of 1980 to 2000. The Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) in St. Petersburg collected the data through a Russian-German collaboration. Researchers used different thermometers and salinometers during the study, with minimum accuracy within 0.05 degrees C or 0.05 psu. Temperature and salinity were measured within the surface layer (<1 m depth). Because of restrictions in the release of data within the Russian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), and as specified in the original proposal, data have been interpolated to a regular grid. Data are in ASCII format, and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, arctic, water temperature, national snow and ice data center, ocean temperature, salinometers, usa, noaa, arcss099, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, opp9876843, russian-american initiative on shelf-land environments in the arctic, raise, thermometers, sea surface temperature, polar, salinity, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, laptev sea, ships, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Temperature and salinity from Great Wall Bay and Ardly Bay in 2005 2006. ABSTRACT: Temperature and Salinity were measured with SEB CTD 19 plus in Great Wall Bay (G1,G2,G3,G4,G5) and Ardly Bay (A1,A2,A3,A4,A5) in Jan. 2006.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, fourier transform spectrometer, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, ace-fts, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, amd, cn, polar, salinity, southern ocean, density, earth science, ceos, antarctica, ships, ocean, aatsr, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, advanced along-track scanning radiometer, 
TITLE: LAKE BONNEY METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Water Vapor Density. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology bonney.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Bonney meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes water vapor density data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, lake bonney, polar, amd, us, meteorology, lter, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, atmospheric water vapor, usa, nsf, water vapor density, long-term ecological research, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, humidity, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, taylor valley, lawn, 
TITLE: Ground penetrating radar measurements on blue ice fields in Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica, in 1999 2002. ABSTRACT: Ground penetrating radar (GPR) data measured with 800, 200 and 50 MHz antennas on blue ice areas and their accumulation areas. Raw GPR data, positions measured with differential global positioning system (DGPS). Measurements made on 3 blue ice areas on the Heimefrontfjella mountain range in the season 1999 2000.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, gpr, dronning maud land, ceos, antarctica, amd, fi, ground penetrating radar, ice depth, thickness, amd, geographic region, snow, ice, snow depth, blue ice, 
TITLE: Sviny mooring S1. ABSTRACT: Moored rig at Sviny observing current and some other parameters. KEYWORD: ocean currents, sea_water_pressure, salinity, northward_sea_water_velocity, sea_water_speed, direction_of_sea_water_velocity, north atlantic ocean, norwegian sea, earth science, water pressure, velocity, pressure, arctic, no, eastward_sea_water_velocity, ipy, ocean, oceanography, temperature, oceans, sea_water_salinity, ocean pressure, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Historical Arctic Rawinsonde Archive. ABSTRACT: Volumes 1 through 5 of this data set contain millions of vertical soundings (temperature, pressure, humidity, wind) representing all available rawinsonde ascents from Arctic land stations poleward of 65 degrees North from the beginning of record through mid-1996. Most records begin in the late 1950s, and a few in 1947 or 1948. Typically, 20 to 40 levels are included in each sounding. Coverage is relatively uniform, except in the Greenland interior. All sounding data were obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), and from the NOAA National Climatic Data Center (NCDC). All data are available on CD-ROM. Documentation is available on disk, on-line, and as hard copy. Software (FORTRAN and C) programs for data retrieval are provided on CD-ROM.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, altitude, north polar, atmospheric temperature, balloons, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, atmospheric soundings, eosdis, geopotential height, greenland, usa, nsf, earth science information partners program, russia, sweden, alaska, humidity, radiosondes, ground stations, rawinsondes, us, finland, surface winds, polar, surface air temperature, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, dewpoint depression, canada, earth observing system data information system, ocean, water vapor, norway, esip, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: NASA GISS Surface-Atmosphere Exchange of Methane Data. ABSTRACT: [Source: NASA GISS, http:  data.giss.nasa.gov ch4_fung  ] Surface Exchange of Methane (Fung et al. 1991) This page offers access to a number of datasets which describe the exchange of methane between Earth's surface and atmosphere. They have been used in simulations of atmospheric CH4 using the GISS three-dimensional tracer transport model. An overview of the datasets and the model runs is given in Fung et al. (1991) (see References below). Listed source strengths are global sums from the datasets. In many cases, they are arbitrary values assumed for mathematical convenience. See Fung et al. (1991) for a discussion of the actual source strengths and their uncertainties. Individual files according to methane source may be downloaded via the following links; All are gzipped ASCII-text tables and none exceed 15-kb in length. All are at 1  1 resolution. Alternatively, you may download this entire collection of methane data in one of two ways: - Complete tar-and-gzip archive (550 kB) including all of the individual ASCII files. - All data in one netCDF file (20 MB).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, greenhouse gases, trace gases, trace species, geia, arctic, earth science, global, usa, nasa, ch4, igac, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global emissions inventory activity, international global atmospheric chemistry project, igbp, methane, geographic region, igbp, 
TITLE: Active Layer Measurements in Tanana Flats, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of active layer thickness from forested uplands (islands and benches) bordering the interconnected wetlands of Tanana Flats, near Fairbanks, Alaska. CRREL permafrost cores were taken to depths of about 1.5 m to characterize ice content, ice type, and organics in the permafrost. Data were collected in 1989, and from 1992 to the present. The project aimed at describing and understanding the origin of the permafrost wetlands and their extent in relation to vegetation, permafrost, and hydrology.. KEYWORD: continent, active layer, sediment corers, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, wetlands, united states of america, north america, alaska, soil temperature, ground stations, tanana flats, alaska, aquatic ecosystems, permafrost properties, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, permafrost degradation, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, permafrost, frozen ground, geographic region, 
TITLE: Coastal Waterbird Community Structures in the Sea of Okhotsk, Russia, during spring and fall in 1999 - 2004. ABSTRACT: This data set contains coastal waterbird survey data 1999 - 2004 in the Sea of Okhotsk, Russia. It covers waterbird information (relative abundance), collected with beach scans, percent scans and transect surveys along to the coastal areas of the study area. Areas that were surveyed are: Northern Sakhalin Island, Eastern Sakhalin Island, Southern Sakhalkin Island, West Kamchatka and Magadan region. These are either accessible beaches (sand and gravel) or estuaries. Some areas have received a repeated survey effort over years and seasons (spring and fall). Survey locations are few for the large coastline but consist among the best available information for this region. Coastal seabird surveys were carried out using beach scans, percent scans, and transect surveys. Surveys were done by one person (Falk Huettmann, Mike Suitor for Iturup and Sakhalin 2004). Beach scans are 360 scans of an area as far as the naked eye can detect species. These scans are snapshots in time. Percent scans were done where seabird flocks were large. The percentages of the species and their age classes were identified; for larger flocks, numbers were estimated. When noted, transect surveys were conducted along beaches. In this instance the shoreline was followed at a constant even pace along the waters edge representative for the beach. Seabirds were classified to species and age class; moult and gender information was only sometimes possible. In all surveys, binoculars were used to confirm the identities and age of seabirds. Waterbirds were scanned for leg flegs, wing tags and other marks. Data were collected in the field on paper and notebooks, and in the office coded and transcribed, and then checked on hard copy and Excel spread sheets. Data were pre-processed by Falk Huettmann and Mike Suitor, and finalized by Jana Kotzerka and checked by Mike Suitor and Daisuke Kawai. Species identification and bird numbers are done by Falk Huettmann and Mike Suitor (for data 2004).. KEYWORD: seabird ecology, continent, biological classification, long-tailed jaeger, ecological dynamics, arctic, black-headed gull, seasonal distributions, common gull, birds, common tern, larus crassirostris, larus canus, sterna hirundo, russia, larus ridibundus, black-tailed gull, russian far east, aleutian tern, sterna aleutica, scan counts, index of relative abundance, larus argentatus, europe, north pacific ocean, seabird distributions, polar, seabird monitoring, sea of okhotsk, pacific ocean, earth science, seabird surveys, larus schistisagus, usa, nasa, biosphere, slaty-backed gull, population dynamics, glaucous gull, larus hyperboreus, animals, vertebrates, eastern europe, black-legged kittiwake, ocean, species, population interactions, herring gull, rissa tridactyla, geographic region, pacific russia, 
TITLE: Arctic Coastal Dynamics Program. ABSTRACT: The Arctic Coastal Dynamics (ACD) program is a multidisciplinary, multinational program with the goal of understanding circum-Arctic coastal dynamics as a function of environmental forcing, coastal geology and cryology, and morphodynamic behavior. The ACD program was formed under the auspices of the International Permafrost Association (IPA), and is an official project of the International Arctic Sciences Committee (IASC). The ACD program is currently focused on developing a circum-Arctic estimate of sediment and organic input from coastal erosion to inner shelf. Studies indicate that coastal erosion forms a major source of the sediment input and total organic carbon (TOC) input to the Arctic seas.. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, polar, geomorphology, erosion, sedimentation, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, usa, noaa, sedimentation, coastal processes, coastal elevation, ocean, ground ice, coastal landforms, processes, frozen ground, erosion, oceans, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Airborne Simulator (MAS) Level-1B Data and Imagery. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Airborne Simulator (MAS) home page on the WWW is http:  mas.arc.nasa.gov . Sample MAS imagery, mission summary information, visible and infrared browse images for every processed straight-line flight track in each mission, as well as technical information and documentation are available on the MAS home page. MAS is a 50-channel scanning spectrometer that collects high spatial resolution imagery of cloud, land, and ocean surfaces similar to the information to be provided by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), scheduled to be launched on the Earth Observing System AM (EOS-AM1) spacecraft in 1998. The MAS spectrometer acquires high spatial resolution imagery in the wavelength range 0.55 to 14.3 microns. A total of 50 bands are available. The MAS is flown on the NASA ER-2 high altitude research aircraft and has participated in the following experiments: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Cirrus IFO II (31 Oct 1991 - 7 Dec 1991) Atlantic Stratocumulus Transition Experiment (ASTEX) (29 May 1992 - 23 June 1992) TOGA Coupled Ocean-Atmosphere Response Experiment (TOGA COARE) (3 Jan 1993 - 4 March 1993) Central Equatorial Pacific Experiment (CEPEX) (9 March 1993 - 8 April 1993) Sulfates, Clouds and Radiation - America (SCAR-A) (12 July 1993 - 29 July 1993) Smoke, Clouds, and Radiation - Brazil (SCAR-B) (13 August 1995 - 11 September 1995) Boreal Ecosystem-Atmosphere Study (BOREAS) (8 Feb 1994) and (21 July 1994 - 8 August 1994) Winter Cloud Experiment (WINCE) (23 January 1997 - 13 February 1997) Tropospheric Aerosol Radiative Forcing Observational Experiment (TARFOX) (7 July 1996 - 26 July 1996) Subsonic Aircraft Contrail and Cloud Effects Special Study (SUCCESS) (8 April 1996 - 15 May 1996) Arctic Radiation Measurement in Column: Atmosphere-Surface (2 June 1995 - 16 June 1995) Alaska-April 95 Campaign (31 March 1995 - 25 April 1995) Monterey Area Ship Tracks (MAST) (11 June 1994 - 30 June 1994) MAS data is currently available from all of the above experiments. The FIRE, ASTEX, SCAR-A, and SCAR-B MAS Level 1-B data are available from the Langley DAAC. All of the other data are available from the GSFC DAAC. The MAS Level-1B data (calibrated and earth located radiances) are stored in the Hierarchical Data Format (HDF). The data are organized into straight line flight tracks. Data is ordered by flight day.. KEYWORD: wince, arctic ocean, toga coupled ocean atmosphere response experiment, mid-latitude, armcas, arctic, eos, smoke, clouds, and radiation - brazil, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, tropospheric aerosol radiative forcing observational experiment, nasa er-2, winter cloud experiment, the boreal ecosystem-atmosphere study, first isccp regional experiment, north america, imagery, toga coare, spectral, engineering, fire, modis, infrared wavelengths, cepex, toga, lba, central equatorial pacific experiment, monterey area ship tracks, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, ocean, canada, success, modis airborne simulator, astex, geographic region, subsonic aircraft contrail and cloud effects special study, atlantic stratocumulus transition experiment, continent, visible imagery, mast, sulfates, clouds and radiation america, scar-b, infrared imagery, level-1b, tropical ocean global atmosphere, equatorial, eosdis, earth science information partners program, united states of america, mas, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, hdf, usa, nasa, earth observing system, tarfox, nasa earth resources-2, arctic radiation measurement in column atmosphere surface, esip, atlantic ocean, scar_a, boreas, 
TITLE: North American Bird Encounter Retrieval File. ABSTRACT: Purpose: Banding and encounter data are gathered and filed for the purpose of facilitating migratory bird research in North America. Waterfowl banding and encounter data are used by federal, state and provincial wildlife agencies in combination with other data sets, to help set federal hunting regulations. In addition, many states and provinces use banding and encounter data as a component of both game and nongame studies. Both banding and encounter data can be combined with other data for work on bird distribution, migration, survival, mortality, population size, and other demographic parameters. Abstract: The Encounter Retrieval File contains records of banded birds that have been encountered, subsequent to any capture, and reported to the Bird Banding Laboratory. Encounter data include the associated banding data. All encounters for game and nongame from 1908 through the current cut-off date (August of each year) are included. Banding and encounter data are gathered and filed for the purpose of facilitating migratory bird research in North America. Waterfowl banding and encounter data are used by federal, state and provincial wildlife agencies in combination with other data sets, to help set federal hunting regulations. In addition, many states and provinces use banding and encounter data as a component of both game and nongame studies. Both banding and encounter data can be combined with other data for work on bird distribution, migration, survival, mortality, population size, and other demographic parameters. The Encounter Retrieval file contains close to 3 million records. The file increases annually by approximately 55,000 records. The Encounter Retrieval File contains limited records of recaptured birds. Encounter Data are displayed in the following order: band number, replaced band, date recovered (month-date-year), how obtained, who reported, present condition, why reported, batch number, where recovered (region, latitude, longitude, direction code), permit number, species number, status, additional information, age, sex, where banded (region, latitude, longitude, direction code), date banded (month-date-year), band type, date cycle processed, hunting seasons survived. A file format is included with all disks to assist the user in separating the fields. Listings have the fields separated and identified. The Encounter File includes entire range of North American species. Range includes breeding, wintering and migration locations. Wintering ranges can include South America, Africa, Europe. Breeding can occur as far north as the Arctic. However, the species being studied are North American species. More information on the Bird Banding Laboratory can be found at: http:  www.pwrc.usgs.gov bbl . KEYWORD: tagging, biological classification, ecological dynamics, survival rates, range, range changes, global, birds, migratory rates, routes, breeding range, brd, north american species, earth science, banding, ceos, biosphere, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, marking, species, population interactions, migration, geographic region, usgs, winter range, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: U. Road Network Files, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: Road Network Files (RNFs) contain a road layer for the entire country and a province territory boundary layer. The road layer includes roads, with road names and address ranges (arc attributes), and geographic codes to identify blocks, census subdivisions, census metropolitan areas census agglomerations, and provinces territories (polygon attributes). Address ranges are mainly available in the large urban centres of Canada. The province territory boundary layer incorporates hydrography (the shoreline around Canada and the larger inland lakes) with the boundaries and the geographic codes. The digital coordinates are in latitude longitude and are based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83). Road Network Files are available for Canada, for individual provinces and territories, and for census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and those census agglomerations (CAs) with census tracts. A reference guide is included (92F0157GIE). Note: The Road Network Files replace the Street Network Files (SNFs), which were a similar product previously available only for the large urban centres of Canada. RNFs contain more roads, road names and address ranges than SNFs. Coordinates: Latitude Longitude (NAD83) Format: ARC INFO Interchange, and MapInfo Interchange for Windows. Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0157XCE01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The Road Network Files are released as a geographic reference for the 2001 Census data. The Road Network Files, in conjunction with Statistics Canada data, can be used for applications such as site location analysis, planning of service delivery or various types of data analysis and mapping. Road Network Files are maintained to support census and other Statistics Canada activities and therefore topological accuracy takes precedence over absolute positional accuracy. Thus the positional accuracy of the RNFs does not support cadastral, surveying or engineering applications. RNFs can be used with Cartographic Boundary Files to provide additional geographic reference information. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: NAD83 CNT Ellipsoid Name: Clarke 1866 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: streets, census tracts, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, federal electoral districts, northern hemisphere, geocoding, north america, ontario, boundaries, census consolidated subdivisions, highways, human dimensions, block face, geographical classification, representative points, cities, nova scotia, census divisions, population, planning, canada, cgdi, canada, towns, new brunswick, economic resources, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, nunavut, northwest territories, census agglomerations, handbooks, saskatchewan, street networks, polar, earth science, census metropolitan area, ceos, dissemination areas, quebec, alberta, administrative divisions, hydrography, geographic reference date, prince edward island, geographic areas, 
TITLE: Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge; USGS. ABSTRACT: Digital cartographic data is provided on the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge. The data set contains land cover classifications derived from Landsat MSS data and elevation, slope and aspect data derived from DEM data. Data can be keyed on a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle basis. Spatial referencing is by 50 meter grid cells. Data source is Landsat MSS data and Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data. The data set contains 70 records. Limited documentation and users guide are available. Data is organized by 7 1 2 ' or 15 ' quads.. KEYWORD: biological classification, terrain elevation, digital elevation model, arctic, aedd, mss, dem, yukon flats natl. wildlife refuge, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, human dimensions, aquatic ecosystems, field maps, terrestrial hydrosphere, land cover, models, topography, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, surface water, landforms, alaska directory, yukon, mammals, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, landcover, geology, wetlands, united states of america, yukon flats, satellite, wildlife, elevation, polar, earth science, ceos, land surface, wildlife distribution, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: UCSB Earth System Science Workbench (ESSW): AVIRIS Imagery. ABSTRACT: The Earth System Science Workbench (ESSW) and the Snow Hydrology Group in the Donald Bren School of Environmental Science and Management at UCSB has a partial archive of NASA JPL's Airborne Visible Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) data acquired over snow-covered alpine terrain. The archive primarily consists of Sierra Nevada scenes acquired at or near the date of peak snow water equivalent and through snowmelt. Other regions include the Colorado Rocky Mountains, Washington Cascade Range, North Slope of Alaska, and the volcanoes of Mexico. We store radiometrically calibrated radiance images. These consist of 224 spectral bands spanning 400-2500 nm wavelength at 10 nm spectral resolution.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, arctic, infrared imagery, earth science information partners program, united states of america, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, airborne visible and infrared imaging spectrometer, north pacific ocean, polar, infrared wavelengths, pacific ocean, aircraft, earth science, remote sensing, ucsb, usa, nasa, mexico, visible wavelengths, ocean, canada, esip, geographic region, essw, aviris, 
TITLE: Coastal Monitoring Data, Arctic and Eastern Canada and Selected Lakes. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of information on the location, date and results of repeated survey profiles and cliff edge measurements at coastal sites in Atlantic and Arctic Canada. Period of surveys, number of surveys, line bearing, type of equipment used, reference datums, benchmark control and estimates of survey accuracy are provided. Each survey point includes values for elevation and distance on the profile and a description of material and morphology. Surveys from different times on the same profile can be plotted to determine change. Photos of survey sites are included.This data set provides information on the location and results of measurements of coastal change. Relevance: Long term measurement of coastal dynamics aids in the interpretation of coastal processes and provides data on rates and direction of change. This data is used as an indicator of climate change and a foundation for planning land use and other human activities in the coastal zone. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: World Geodetic System (WGS) 84 Ellipsoid Name: Geodetic Reference System (GRS) 80 Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: geomorphology, engineering geology, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, atlantic canada, none, cape breton, north america, nova scotia south shore, climate change, topography, nova scotia, land use, land cover, monitoring, landforms, lacustrine coasts, coast, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, halifax harbour, new brunswick, erosion, oceans, survey, geographic region, continent, newfoundland and labrador, environmental geology, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, northwest territories, marine, lake winnipeg, coastal zone, nova scotia eastern shore, polar, erosion, sedimentation, earth science, deposition, ceos, land surface, climate, marine coasts, land resources, mcnabs island, coastal processes, environment, prince edward island, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Sensitivities to Climate Change in Canada. ABSTRACT: This collection of maps illustrates possible environmental outcomes that could occur as a result of the doubling of current levels of carbon dioxide (CO2). Potential effect topics covered in this collection of maps include sea level rise, impacts of permafrost thaw, increased forest fire potential, sensitivity of rivers, effects on the Pacific salmon fishery, increased wind erosion potential, effects on western Alpine regions. It also includes increased potential for soil degradation and peatland thaw and the resulting greenhouse gas contributions that these two carbon sinks could potentially have on the atmosphere.To show some of the changes that could occur with a doubling of the current levels of carbon dioxide (CO2).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, geomorphology, aerosols, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, agriculture, water resources, northern hemisphere, carbonaceous aerosols, north america, ontario, carbon, saskatchewan, human dimensions, soils, map, yukon territory, land cover, climate change, polar, hydrology, water management, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, land use, land cover, land surface, quebec, alberta, atmospheric chemistry, environment, canada, cgdi, permafrost, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: Ship Iceberg Collision Database. ABSTRACT: This database at http:  www.icedata.ca describes collisions that have taken place in the northern hemisphere mainly over the last two hundred years, principally on the Grand Banks and North Atlantic but also including the waters of Alaska, Greenland and the Arctic. The site contains the original html version containing about 450 incidents as well as the new searchable Microsoft Access version which contains over 670 incidents including ship characteristics, images, ice charts, damage descriptions and any other known relevant factors. An Access version of the database is available for those who do not already have it installed on their computer. The Access database is updated from time to time as new information is found.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, icebergs, arctic, north atlantic ocean, hudson strait, labrador sea, greenland, svalbard, northern hemisphere, united states of america, north america, alaska, sea ice, baffin bay, human dimensions, gulf of st. lawrence, terrestrial hydrosphere, north pacific ocean, polar, labrador, maps, pacific ocean, grand banks, earth science, cryosphere, natural hazards, hydrological hazards, usa, nasa, greenland sea, glaciers, ice sheets, meteorological hazards, ships, ocean, canada, newfoundland, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Ice Core Microparticle Analyses of the Collins Ice Cap on King George Island in West Antartica. ABSTRACT: At the Climate Change Research Center, the University of New Hampshire, USA, continuous measurement of microparticles was conducted on the top 45m of an ice core, which was drilled at the summit of Collins Ice Cap. The ice core was sampled at intervals between 15 to 20cm. In addition, an experimental analysis of the temporal variation of microparticle content in a liquid was conducted.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, ice cores, collins ice cap, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, microparticles, coring devices, antarctica, paleoclimate, glaciers, ice sheets, particulate matter, ice augers, amd, cn, king george island, amd, ice core records, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Study of the glacial system of Livingston Island. Terrestrial photogrammetry on the glacial system of Livingston Island.. ABSTRACT: In English: The aim of this project is to understand the dynamics of the glacial system of Livingston Island (South Shetland Islands, Antarctica). Source data are obtained both from remote sensing techniques and field work. Remote sensing data: Geometrical correction and comparison of a set of satellite images and air photographs show that there has been a 4% diminution in the area of the Livingston Island ice cap from 1956 to 1991. To understand the dynamics of such a fast retreat of the ice front, field work studies on mass balance and ice flow dynamics are needed. Field work: During the 1994 1995 field-work season, we mainly worked on the portion of the glacial system that calves at Johnson Dock to get first estimates about mass balance and ice flow.Ice flow dynamics: 17 stakes have been planted to be used as markers. Measurement of the position of the stakes by using a theodolite indicated that, during the period of observations (2 months), the downward movement ranged up to 5 m. in the frontal parts of the glacier whereas ice movement close to the glacial divide was below measurements errors. Mass balance: Some permanent stakes have been installed to measure ablation and accumulation rates through the following years. We recovered 11 continuous ice-cores (to a maximum depth of 16.22 m.) to be analysed for artificial radioactive elements by M. Pourchet (Laboratoire de Glaciologie et Geophysique de l'Environment). The aim of these techniques is to determine the depth at which the ice-layers formed synchronously to the atomic test of the 1950 and 1960 decades. Samples of ash layers interstratified in ice have been collected to be analysed geochemically, with the purpose of correlating them with the well dated recent volcanic eruptions in the nearby Deception Island. A detailed stratigraphy of the ash layers cropping out at the coastal ice-front of Livingston Island is currently being made by using stereoscopic photographs and theodolite measurements. To achieve the aims of this project, it is extremely important to repeat observations and measurements during the next years. The reliability of the results to be obtained strongly depends on getting data through a sufficiently long span of time. En Espanol: El objetivo de este proyecto es entender la dinamica del sistema glaciar de la Isla Livingston (Islas Shetland del Sur, Antartida). Se obtuvieron fuentes de datos con tecnicas de sensores remotos y trabajo de campo. Datos de sensores remotos: la correccion geometrica y comparacion de series de imagenes digitales y fotografias aereas muestran que ha habido un 4% de disminucion en la cubierta de hielo de la Isla Livingston entre 1956 y 1991. Para entender la dinamica de esta rapida regresion del frente de hielo, estudios de campo de balance de masas y dinamica de flujo del hielo son necesarios. Trabajo de campo: Durante el trabajo de campo de la temporada 1994 1995 trabajamos principalmente en la porcion del sistema glaciar que parte de Johnson Dock a las primeras estimaciones del balance de masas y flujo de hielo. Dinamica del flujo de hielo: se plantaron 17 estacas para ser usadas como marcadores. Las medidas de la posicion de las estacas se hicieron con un teodolito que ind icaron que, durante el periodo de observaciones (2 meses) el movimiento descendente se alineo a 5 m. en las partes frontales del glaciar mientras que el movimiento del hielo cerca del glaciar era por debajo de las medidas de los errores. Balance de masas: se instalaron algunas estacas permanentes para medir la ablacion y tasa de acumulacion en los siguientes anos. Recuperamos 11 centros de hielo (a una profundidad maxima de 16.22 m) para ser analizados por elementos radiactivos artificiales por M. Pourchet (Laboratoire de Glaciologie et Geophysique de l'Environment). El objetivo de esta tecnica es determinar la profundidad a la cual las capas de hielo se formaron sincronicamente con la prueba atomica de la decada de 1950 y 1960. Muestras de capas de cenizas interestratificadas en el hielo han sido recogidas para ser analizadas geoquimicamente, con el proposito de correlacionarlas con las erupciones volcanicas correctamente datadas recientemente cerca de la isla Decepcion. Una detallada estratigrafia de las capas de ceniza aflorando en el frente de hielo de la costa de la Isla Livingston esta siendo actualmente hecha usando fotografias estereoscopicas y medidas de teodolitos. Para llevar a cabo los objetivos de este proyecto es extremadamente importante repetir las observaciones y medidas durante los proximos anos. La fiabilidad de los resultados obtenidos depende fuertemente de que la obtencion de datos se haga a lo largo de un espacio de tiempo suficientemente largo.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, volcanic deposits, photogrammetry, european remote sensing satellite-1, mss, paleoclimate, ablation zones, accumulation zones, ers-1, amd, es, ice velocity, snow, ice, ice growth, melt, glaciology, polar, theodolite, livingston island, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, ice motion, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, systeme probatoire pour l'observation de la terre-1, ice depth, thickness, amd, ice core records, geographic region, stereographic photographs, multispectral scanner, spot-1, landsat, 
TITLE: Q. GeoSearch, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: GeoSearch is a new Internet tool that makes it easy to find any place in Canada, see it on a map, and get basic geographic and population and dwelling data for that place. To find a specific place of interest, users can click and zoom on a map of Canada or they can search by place name, street name or street intersection. GeoSearch finds and displays the appropriate map that shows boundaries and other features. GeoSearch also automatically displays population and dwelling counts for the selected place, and shows what kind of geographic area it is and its relationship to other geographic areas. The boundary layers displayed include dissemination area, census tract (where available), census subdivision, census division, census agglomeration, census metropolitan area, urban area, province and territory. Go to the Census Geography area on the STC website. Catalogue number for Internet is: 92F0176XIE ...for additional information visit our organization's web siteGeoSearch is a new Internet tool that makes it easy to find any place in Canada, see it on a map, and get basic geographic and population and dwelling data for that place.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, information systems, polar, databases, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, internet, 
TITLE: Daily Soil Temperature and Meteorological Data for Sites at Toolik Lake Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of daily air, water, and soil temperature, wind speed, vapor pressure, and the sum of global radiation and unfrozen precipitation data from the Toolik Lake area of Alaska between 1998 and 2002. The data includes readings from two sites: the Toolik Arctic Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) Tundra site and the nearby Toolik Tussock Experimental plots site that includes soil measurements from fertilized and unfertilized greenhouse and 'shadehouse' areas. Data loggers recorded soil temperatures at various intervals down to 150 cm. Air temperatures were recorded between 1 and 5 meters. This data set is a subset of the more comprehensive data set, Monitoring and Manipulation of Tundra Response to Climate Change, Arctic LTER, Toolik Lake, Alaska. The data consist of 28 comma-delimited ASCII text files, and are available via ftp. Data files for each site contain slightly different meteorological parameters. The research project was funded by the Arctic System Sciences (ARCSS) Program, grant number OPP-9810222. See the Arctic LTER site for the hourly data and other weather data (http:  ecosystems.mbl.edu arc default.htm).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, temperature sensors, ggd, lter, arctic, wind velocity, usa, noaa, arctic system science, temperature loggers, north america, alaska, arcss, laii, atlas, thermometers, soil temperature, global geocryological data system, surface air temperature, wind speed, wind direction, solar radiation, toolik lake, anemometers, temperature probes, rainfall amount, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, permafrost, automatic remote weather station, frozen ground, arctic system science, laii, arctic transitions in the land-atmosphere system, humidity sensors, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, continent, global radiation, toolik lter, air temperature, alaskan north slope, pyranometers, agriculture, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, united states of america, soil temperature probe, licor quantum sensor, soils, arcss906, surface rainfall, surface winds, arws, polar, wind-induced undercatch, near-surface wind speeds, ggd906, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, adcc, net radiometers, arctic lter, water vapor profiles, rainfall total, 
TITLE: Radiation Measurements from the USCGC Polar Sea, 1994. ABSTRACT: This data set includes spectral and broadband measurements of downwelling shortwave and longwave radiation made aboard the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter "Polar Sea" during the 1994 Arctic Ocean Section (AOS). Measurements were made using a Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroradiometer, a multichannel narrowband ultraviolet radiometer, two Eppley pyranometers, and an Eppley pyrgeometer. Surface air temperatures and relative humidity data accompany the radiation measurements. Data are in comma-delimited ASCII format and are available via ftp.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, nsf, arctic system science, oaii, arctic ocean section, arctic ocean, atmospheric temperature, shortwave radiation, arctic, arcss093, usa, noaa, pyrgeometers, opp-9322700, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, pyranometers, arctic system science, usa, nsf, humidity, ocean optics, radiometers, radiative flux, opp9322700, polar, ftir spectrometer, surface air temperature, arctic system science data coordination center, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, office of polar programs, national science foundation, photosynthetically active radiation, temperature probes, arcss, oaii, aos, atmospheric water vapor, adcc, ultraviolet radiation, ships, longwave radiation, national science foundation, ocean, ocean heat budget, water vapor, oceans, humidity sensors, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, nsf, opp, arcss, 
TITLE: Compendium of Environmental Sustainability Indicator Collections: 2004 Environmental Vulnerability Index (EVI). ABSTRACT: The 2004 Environmental Vulnerability Index (EVI) portion of the Compendium of Environmental Sustainability Indicator Collections contains 111 variables for 235 countries and territories. This index is designed to be used with economic and social vulnerability indices to provide insights into the processes that can negatively influence the sustainable development of countries. It was developed through consultation and collaborations with countries, institutions and experts across the globe by the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission (SOPAC), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and their partners. The data are distributed by the Columbia University Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN). The purpose is to provide a tabular dataset of vulnerability indicators that can be used in interdisciplinary studies of the environment. The data are available from the Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC) in comma-separated values (CSV), SPSS (SAV) and Stata (DTA) formats. A data dictionary for all indicators and ancillary variables is available for download in Word, PDF, and Microsoft Access formats. It includes indicator code, indicator name, collection name, sub-index name (if the indicator is part of a collection sub-index), date, units of measurement, source and methodology. The data and data dictionary are available via direct download at http:  sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu es compendium.html.. KEYWORD: belarus, western europe, japan, renewable water, ecological dynamics, usa, ciesin, south africa, echo, gambia, guinea, western pacific ocean, san marino, estonia, dominican republic, oceania, human population growth, cook islands, land and freshwater resources, heard island, philippines, air quality, cuba, mauritius, mali, southeastern asia, migratory species, species extinction, disasters, switzerland, hong kong, armenia, vietnam, australia, laos, volcanic ash, dust, yugoslavia, population size, population, aruba, solomon islands, middle east, st pierre and miquelon, turkey, agricultural chemicals, ukraine, oceans, austria, continent, macedonia, fyr, cambodia, global, eosdis, monaco, environmental agreements, hungary, kenya, greenland, greece, paraguay, palau, vanuatu, cyprus, sea temperatures, compendium of environmental sustainability indicators collections, colombia, azerbaijan, environmental accidents, southern ocean, waste production, pacific ocean, population distribution, syria, rwanda, libya, industry and energy, burkina faso, eastern europe, environmental vulnerability index, afghanistan, norway, esip, kiribati, bulgaria, cesic, southern asia, south korea, bahrain, guatemala, ghana, somalia, jamaica, sulphur dioxide emissions, togo, liechtenstein, thailand, france, netherlands antilles, fishing effort, bouvet island, montserrat, senegal, turks and caicos islands, zambia, comoros, namibia, taiwan, ocean, central america, canada, french polynesia, congo, democratic republic, honduras, land degradation, virgin islands, indian ocean, maldives, endemic species, chile, oman, intensive farming, vatican city, brazil, guyana, lesotho, germany, vehicles, earthquakes, india, malaysia, peru, geographic isolation, southern europe, st helena, agriculture, trinidad and tobago, ecology, northern mariana islands, denmark, sri lanka, belize, emissions, nauru, kuwait, slovenia, haiti, zimbabwe, asia, eastern asia, el salvador, micronesia, land surface, human conflicts, shared borders, environmental protection, bolivia, china, antigua and barbuda, israel, species, population interactions, tsunamis, atlantic ocean, bangladesh, ireland, atmosphere, biotechnology, polynesia, mid-latitude, albania, arctic, poland, western asia, united arab emirates, botswana, andorra, venezuela, marshall islands, caribbean, malawi, moldova, russia, sweden, lowlands, north korea, weather, south america, madagascar, melanesia, norfolk island, caribbean sea, south atlantic ocean, environmental openness, cape verde, turkmenistan, africa, christmas island, iran, iraq, vegetation cover, falkland islands, seychelles, northern europe, biosphere, country dispersion, indonesia, nicaragua, southcentral asia, puerto rico, gibraltar, equatorial guinea, ethiopia, eastern africa, ecuador, guinea-bissau, marine reserves, saudi arabia, spain, mauritania, habitats, algeria, american samoa, mozambique, north atlantic ocean, cameroon, portugal, costa rica, lithuania, equatorial, sanitation, panama, south georgia island, lebanon, luxembourg, mongolia, northern africa, st vincent and the grenadines, europe, ciesin, italy, volcanic gases, spills, finland, bosnia and herzegovina, polar, erosion, sedimentation, benin, nigeria, sudan, chad, norwegian sea, liberia, djibouti, climate, tajikistan, fiji, coastal settlements, singapore, mexico, samoa, tunisia, landslides, bahamas, endangered species, bhutan, central pacific ocean, uganda, uruguay, gabon, solid earth, industrial production, western africa, niger, kyrgyzstan, pakistan, degradation, martinique, georgia, yemen, cayman islands, argentina, north america, anguilla, jordan, swaziland, human dimensions, burundi, slovakia, belgium, uzbekistan, st kitts and nevis, tanzania, extinction rate, fertilizers, land processes, svalbard and jan mayen, grenada, netherlands, sao tome and principe, guam, mining, central africa, antarctica, pitcairn island, eritrea, croatia, earth observing system data information system, south pacific ocean, south sandwich islands, niue, amd, nepal, geographic region, brunei darussalam, morocco, tokelau, congo, republic, bermuda, british isles, guadeloupe, suriname, central african republic, french guiana, vegetation, romania, wallis and futuna islands, angola, new zealand, productivity fishing, mediterranean sea, earth science information partners program, cocos islands, czech republic, scandinavia, united states of america, sierra leone, pesticides, latvia, kazakhstan, ocean waves, biodiversity, cote d'ivoire, egypt, australia, new zealand, faeroe islands, united kingdom, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, malta, iceland, terrestrial reserves, macau, papua new guinea, tuvalu, qatar, waste treatment, ecosystems, human population density, reunion, tonga, barbados, new caledonia, ecosystem imbalance, southern africa, 
TITLE: Hypothesized Climate Forcing Time Series for the Last 500 Years. ABSTRACT: [from NOAA NCDC WDC Paleoclimatology] A new compilation of annually resolved time series of atmospheric trace gas concentrations, solar irradiance, tropospheric aerosol optical depth, and stratospheric (volcanic) aerosol optical depth is presented for use in climate modeling studies of the period 1500 to 1999 A.D. Atmospheric CO2, CH4, and N2O concentrations over this period are well established on the basis of fossil air trapped in ice cores and instrumental measurements over the last few decades. Estimates of solar irradiance, ranging between 1364.2 and 1368.2 W m2, are presented using calibrated historical observations of the Sun back to 1610, along with cosmogenic isotope variations extending back to 1500. Tropospheric aerosol distributions are calculated by scaling the modern distribution of sulfate and carbonaceous aerosol optical depths back to 1860 using reconstructed regional CO2 emissions; prior to 1860 the anthropogenic tropospheric aerosol optical depths are assumed to be zero. Finally, the first continuous, annually dated record of zonally averaged stratospheric (volcanic) optical depths back to 1500 is constructed using sulfate flux data from multiple ice cores from both Greenland and Antarctica, in conjunction with historical and instrumental (satellite and pyrheliometric) observations. The climate forcings generated here are currently being used as input to a suite of transient (time dependent) paleoclimate model simulations of the past 500 years. These forcings are also available for comparison with instrumental and proxy paleoclimate data of the same period.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, solid earth, past global changes, igbp, aerosols, nitrous oxide, stratospheric optical depth, arctic, global, usa, noaa, aerosol optical depth, thickness, paleoclimate, volcanic aerosol optical depth, tropospheric optical depth, pages, carbonaceous aerosols, climate forcing, solar activity, solar forcing, insolation reconstruction, snow, ice chemistry, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, igbp, climate change, ground-based observations, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, carbon dioxide, models, paleoclimate reconstructions, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, sulfate particles, earth science, volcanoes, cryosphere, ceos, solar irradiance, volcanic ash, dust, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, sun-earth interactions, methane, ice core records, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, dust, ash, smoke, 
TITLE: met.no DAMOCLES sea ice operational ice concentration and sst. ABSTRACT: This data set contains ice concentration (fraction of ice), and sea surface temperature analysis from the met.no operational coupled ice-ocean model Arctic-20. Each file contains one month of daily analysis valid at 00 GMT. The quality of this data set will vary due to model upgrades, and should therefore in the long term, improve with time. New model-versions are tested semi-operationally before they are included in this data set.. KEYWORD: ice extent, arctic ocean, polar, asimillation, sea_water_temperature, sea_ice_area_fraction, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean temperature, ice, forecast, sea, arctic, no, ipy, ocean, nordic seas, sea ice, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent 5-Min L2 Swath 1km (MOD29) contains the following fields: sea ice by reflectance, sea ice by reflectance pixel quality assurance (QA), ice surface temperature (IST), IST pixel QA, sea ice by IST, combined sea ice, latitudes, and longitudes in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. Latitude and longitude geolocation fields are at 5 km resolution, while all other fields are at 1 km resolution. Version 4 (V004) is the latest version of MOD29 data available. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean, based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Surface Synoptic Reports for Various Locations in the Canadian High Arctic. ABSTRACT: This data is surface synoptic reports for various locations in the high arctic in conjunction with polarcontinental shelf projects and panarctic oil exploration activities, for the period beginning in 1973. The reports include details on pressure, low, middle and high cloud, wind direction, and precipitation. The coverage is for Canadian high Arctic locations. Currently applied in climatological, environmental and engineering research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long Coordinates) Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, precipitation amount, gcmd, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, clouds, none, nunavut, total cloud amount, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, surface winds, polar, surface pressure, cloud types, earth science, wind direction, ceos, pressure, cloud coverage, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, cloud amount, frequency, ocean, canada, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Mass balance measurements and glacier monitoring of glaciers in the Dry Valleys. ABSTRACT: Glaciers of the Dry Valleys occur where snow accumulation gains exceed sublimation and other losses. Monitoring of the mass balance of glaciers in the Dry Valleys was conducted from the 1969 70 summer until the 1990 91 season. The data was used to contribute to the understanding of the mass balance of the glacier-river-lake systems in the Dry Valleys because these fluctuations are indicators of climate change in this part of Antarctica. Mass balances, ablation and other measurements were measured since 1969 on several glaciers within the Dry Valleys including the Sykes, Alberich, Heimdall, Upper Wright, Lower Wright, Clarke, Meserve, Bartley, Hart, Goodspeed, Denton and the Wilson Piedmont Glaciers in the Wright Valley, the Upper Victoria, Lower Victoria and Packard Glaciers in the Victoria Valley, the Upper Taylor, La Croix, Suess, Canada and Commonwealth Glaciers in the Taylor Valley and the Miers and Adams Glaciers in the Miers Valley. Not all measurements were made at each glacier in each season. Arrays of stakes were re-measured both at the beginning and at the end of the season for glacier mass balance figures. Sufficient information was collected to calculate a winter balance, summer balance and annual net balance. Different glacier margins were recognised, varying from snow aprons to calving cliffs. Based on a hypothesis that the type of margin may indicate the state of balance of the glacier, flow and strain rates and ablation measurements were made on some glaciers. Photo-theodolite photos were taken of several glaciers on a 1, 2, 5, 10 year basis for mapping and ice movement purposes. (Detailed mapping is beyond the scope of this equipment and in view of the small glacier fluctuations which occur here over lengthy time periods, these measurements will be of a qualitative rather than quantitative form.) Fixed benchmark photography of the glacier termini of several glaciers was completed. Ice cliff distance and height were measured on the Goodspeed, Hart, Meserve and Bartley Glaciers. In the 1980 81 season, where the Lower Wright Glacier enters Lake Brownworth, and the Taylor Glacier enters Lake Bonney, a number of ice samples were taken. Photos of ice crystals taken from samples will be studied to determine the position and formations present, where glacier ice meets the permanent lake ice. In the 1983 84 season, sites were installed and measurements taken to establish the cliff heights of points on the Lower Wright, Upper Wright, Clarke, Victoria, Meserve and Bartley Glacier margins. Sequences of glacier margin photographs taken from fixed points were repeated at the Lower Wright, Meserve and Heimdall Glaciers for comparison with previously taken sequences to determine glacier margin changes.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, landscape processes, wright valley, earth science, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, glacier mass balance, ice sheet mass balance, field surveys, antarctica, field investigation, ablation zones, accumulation zones, glaciers, ice sheets, victoria valley, amd, nz, amd, ground stations, geographic region, terrestrial hydrosphere, taylor valley, landscape, 
TITLE: Soil Properties of Carbon-Flux Monitoring Sites in Northwestern Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set includes basic soils data collected in summer 1995 for ten ARCSS LAII (Arctic System Science Land-Atmosphere-Ice Interaction) carbon-flux monitoring sites, and several related sites, in northwestern Alaska. Soil profile descriptions, soil carbon data (including carbon quantity, quality, and distribution), soil bulk densities, and soil water content data are provided for each site.. KEYWORD: nsidc, soil descriptions, soil moisture, water content, opp9318534, atlas, arctic, imnaviat creek, usa, noaa, arctic system science, carbon analyzers, arcss004, north america, soil bulk density, carbon, alaska, ground stations, soil carbon content, alaska pipeline, happy valley, soil carbon storage, ground-based observations, barrow, soil horizons, profile, arctic system science data coordination center, soil sampler, arctic soils, soil pits, soil horizons, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, office of polar programs, national science foundation, soil organic carbon content, toolik lake, opp-9318534, fulvic acids, chn analyzers, organic matter, soil properties, geographic region, carbon flux monitoring, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, sag river, soil analyses, soil water, usa, nsf, united states of america, soil mineral matter, flux, soils, polar, soil moisture, nitrogen, laii, earth science, ceos, land surface, arcss, laii, flux, adcc, humic acids, national science foundation, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, fluxes, soil organic matter content, soil chemistry, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 5. ABSTRACT: The MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid (MYD10A2) data set contains data fields for maximum snow cover extent over an eight-day compositing period and a chronology of snow occurrence observations in compressed Hierarchical Data Format-Earth Observing System (HDF-EOS) format, along with corresponding metadata. MOD10A2 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are stored in HDF-EOS format, and are available from 24 February 2000 to present via FTP. Data can also be obtained in GeoTIFF format by ordering the data through the Data Pool.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Dataset of CTD from the 8th Chinese Antarctic Research Expedition in 1991 1992. ABSTRACT: From Dec. of 1991 to Jan. of 1992, Thirty-two CTD stations were taken during the cruise to Prydz Bay. This data set include:Site no.,Latitude,Longitude,Start-Time(LT),Bottom Depth(m),Cast depth. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, ocean temperature, conductivity, temperature, depth, bathymetry, seafloor topography, ctd, ships, prydz bay, ocean, amd, cn, oceans, amd, salinity, density, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Prevailing Mesosphere Wind Estimates (Meteor Winds) from the MAP WINE Experiment at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). ABSTRACT: This data set contains wind estimates for both the zonal and meridional components of prevailing winds recorded at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). The measurements were carried out under the MAP WINE Project using ground-based meteor radars. The derived prevailing wind is not climatological as it varies from day to day. The term 'meteor wind' is used for the mesosphere wind estimates derived from meteor trail drifts measurements. Ionized meteor trails are produced by meteoroids (meteor particles) which enter the Earth's atmosphere. A meteor trail moves in the atmosphere due to the neutral wind and magnetic field. The radial component of this movement is measured using meteor radar. Estimates of 'meteor wind' are derived for each direction (North, South, East, West) from the set of measurements of radial components using statistical characteristics of meteor parameter distributions and parameters of antenna pattern. Meteoroids occur in the height interval 80-100 km and are centered at 92-95 km (maximum for the apex time, near 6 a.m. LT, and minimum for anti-apex time, near 6 p.m. LT ). The MAP WINE (Middle Atmosphere Program Winter in Northern Europe) was one of the MAP projects scheduled for Fall-Winter 1983-1984. The aim was to coordinate observational studies of the high-latitude European middle atmosphere in winter, leading to an improved understanding of the winter variability structure, motions, and composition.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, upper level winds, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, arctic, ionosphere, mesosphere winds, middle atmosphere program, winter in northern europe, russia, map, wine, mesosphere, ground stations, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, vertical location, polar, earth science, usa, nasa, radio detection and ranging, atmospheric winds, eastern europe, radar, ocean, climatology, upper air, geographic region, 
TITLE: B. Reference Maps - Complete Set (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: Reference maps show the location of the geographic areas for which census data are tabulated and disseminated. The maps display the boundaries, names and codes of standard geographic areas, as well as major cultural and physical features, such as roads, railroads, coastlines, rivers and lakes. Over 7,000 reference maps are available for the 2001 Census. Given the diversity in size of these geographic areas, different map scales and map coverages are required to show the appropriate level of detail. Reference Maps - Complete Set, 2001 Census, the complete set of all reference maps for the 2001 Census is available on demand as PDF files on CD-ROM. Catalogue number for CDROM: 92F0172XCB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization website.The maps are designed to enable users to identify the general location and boundaries of the geographic areas for which 2001 Cencus data are available. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, geocoding, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, geographic areas, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Monthly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: MMS Central Northern California Low-altitude birds and mammals. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Principal Investigator(s) Affiliation: Thomas P. Dohl, Center for Marine Studies, University of California, Santa Cruz.Marine Mammal and Seabird Surveys Of Central And Northern California Studies: -- Central Northern Calif - Low Aerial [Birds and Mammals] Study Code: CL Contract Number: 14-12-0001-29090 PURPOSE: To determine species composition, distribution, abundance, and seasonal variation for marine mammal and seabird populations, provide a description of habitat use, and identify areas of special biological importance to these populations in the central and northern California study area. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: February 1980 through June 1983 STUDY AREA: Shelf, slope, and offshore waters to a distance of 100 nm off the California coast from Point Conception to the California-Oregon boundary. METHODOLOGY: Offshore transect surveys were flown twice-monthly at two different altitudes (200 ft and about 750-1,000 ft ASL) along approximately 40 east-west transect lines extending an average of 60 nm offshore. The transects sampled on a given survey were selected randomly from a set of 92 standard (predetermined) lines spaced at intervals of 5' of latitude. Standard transects provided systematic coverage of shelf, slope, and offshore waters in the study area. Sightings of seabirds, pinnipeds, and sea otters were recorded only on low-altitude surveys. Sightings of cetaceans and turtles were recorded on both low- and high-altitude surveys. Seabird sightings were recorded only on the shaded side of the aircraft within a strip transect of 50 m width. Marine mammal and turtle sightings were recorded within an unbounded corridor on both high- and low-altitude surveys, but only the shaded side of the aircraft was searched on the low-altitude surveys. Cross-legs connecting standard transects were searched only on high-altitude surveys. Offshore cross-legs were searched on both sides of the aircraft, while only the nearshore side was searched on cross-legs along the coast. Declination angle was measured and noted for each marine mammal turtle sightings and later used to calculate a probability density function of frequency with right-angle sighting distance. Navigation was by Loran and VLF-Omega. DATABASES PRODUCED: Three databases of sightings at sea were produced by these studies (data on numbers of seabirds and pinnipeds on land were also collected but are not addressed in the present study). These include 1) sightings of cetaceans and turtles recorded on 36 high-altitude aerial surveys, 2) sightings of cetaceans, pinnipeds, sea otters, and turtles recorded on 36 low-altitude aerial surveys, and 3) sightings of seabirds on 36 low-altitude aerial surveys. Each sighting database is accompanied by files providing the search effort on transect and environmental characteristics of the waters surveyed (e.g., sea surface temperature). CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, geese, herons, rhinoceros auklet, troit, steller's sea lion, cormorants, red-breasted merganser, ballena-picuda de couvier, negreta ala blanca, colimbo menor, steller sealion, mouette de bonaparte, cheurs, gaviota occidental, gant, marsouins, oiseaux, anite cul-blanc, brown pelican, arctic tern, ross' gulls, gaviota ploma, cormorans, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, fin whale, ibis, goose-beaked whale, labbes, mew gull, loons, jaegers, negreta negra, penguins, dolphins, oies, humpback whale, continent, pardela cola corta, perviers, picopando canelo, rgulo antiguo, gaviota plateada, common tern, black storm-petrel, storm petrels, tinglar, ducks, geese, swans, front blanc, fulmars, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, colimbo mayor, pingouins, puffin fuligineux, gaviota cana, ballena gris, sterne de forster, labbe pomarin, ballena menor, pacific ocean, puffins, n pescador, o negro, black scoter, ballena jorobada, northern right-whale dolphin, herons, egrets and allies, common loon, o cenizo, short-beaked common dolphin, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, cygnes, long-finned pilot whale, long-tailed jaeger, lida, northern elephant seal, harbor porpoise, alcuela oscura, bes, gaviota pico anillado, labbe parasite, cassin's auklet, cuvier's beaked whale, canards, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, california, gaviota californiana, cetaceans, phale noir de l'atlantique, steller sea lion, whales, cheur, n elegante, northern sea lion, pomarine jaeger, gulls, royal tern, faucons, harbor seal, common murre, tufted puffin, ancient murrelet, auks, elegant tern, beaked whales, petit rorqual, ocean, storks, plongeon catmarin, negreta nuca blanca, short-beaked saddleback dolphin, turtles, toothed whales, pardela pata rosada, n chato, pelagic cormorant, marsouin commun, typical terns, sterne arctique, oceanodroma homochroa, common dolphin, fork-tailed storm-petrel, garza morena, northern right whale dolphin, gaviota de bonaparte, achichilique pico amarillo, california sealion, ring-billed gull, rorqual bleu, marine mammals, red-necked phalarope, pardela de buller, huarts, blue whale, finback whale, tubinares, white-winged scoter, heermann's gull, northern fur seal, rons, herring gull, gico, western grebe, salteador cola larga, bosse, great blue heron, obis, seamap, biological classification, salteador pomarino, aigles, longue queue, minke whale, sabine's gulls, true's porpoise, arctic, n de forster, bonaparte's gull, sabine's gull, macreuse noire, marbled murrelet, waders, gulls, auks and allies, north pacific ocean, california sea lion, north pacific bottle-nosed whale, western gull, sternes, sperm whale, garza blanca, ibises, petrels, tortue luth, mammals, terns, cano blanco, forster's tern, guillemots, tropicbirds, glaucous-winged gull, saddle-backed dolphin, zambullidor orejudo, land de californie, albatrosses, petrels and allies, birds, grebes, macreuse brune, leatherback, flamants, shearwaters, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, rique, rorquals, polar, n de brandt, kittiwakes, cou noir, sito, n costado blanco, ballena azul, dauphins, nutria marina, ducks, porpoises, rtico, carnivores, cou blanc, risso's dolphin, o de leach, california gull, diving ducks, baird's beaked whale, leatherback sea turtle, marine turtles, res marins, sooty shearwater, n caspia, goosebeak whale, grande aigrette, sterne caspienne, rorqual commun, swans, ballena de aleta, north america, falaropo pico grueso, red-throated loon, pacific white-sided dolphin, baleen whales, sea turtles, phoque commun, gray whale, modern sea turtles, leatherback turtle, american white pelican, triers, marsopa de dall, red phalarope, guillemot marmette, orca, sea otter, albatros, geographic region, caspian tern, n real, pardela gris, scoters, leach's storm-petrel, mouettes, northern sea elephant, brandt's cormorant, northern fulmar, reptiles, surf scoter, golfinho, falaropo cuello rojo, killer whale, common porpoise, horned puffin, sterne pierregarin, obis-seamap, ron, seals, sea lions, walruses, united states of america, baleia, dall's porpoise, great egret, phalacrocorax olivaceus, marbled godwit, plongeon huard, licans, grampus, ivory gulls, pelicans and allies, aircraft, earth science, paulard, lobo-marino californiano, osprey, baleines, black-legged kittiwake, northern minke whale, trels, ibises, spoonbills, cano pardo, lands, short-beaked saddle-backed dolphin, gaviota ala glauca, eared grebe, finback whales, 
TITLE: Circumpolar Active-Layer Permafrost System (CAPS). ABSTRACT: The Circumpolar Active-Layer Permafrost System (CAPS) CD-ROM contains data sets and information products pertaining to permafrost and frozen ground topics. CAPS was originally compiled by the International Permafrost Association's (IPA) Standing Committee on Data Information and Communication (SCDIC)in 1998, and was updated by NSIDC and the IPA's SCDIC in 2003. CAPS contains over 100 data sets and information products pertaining to permafrost and frozen ground topics. It also contains detailed metadata records describing over 100 additional data sets available at other GGD nodes around the world. Dozens of contributors submitted data collections representing global sites. CAPS is organized for use within an HTML browser such as Internet Explorer or Netscape. Most data files are in ASCII text format, and in a few cases data are also provided in Microsoft Excel. Maps are typically available in the ESRI Shapefile GIS format. Some of the larger data files have been compressed with gzip. Images are in JPG, GIF, and PNG format. This compilation of data and information products is intended for a broad audience including the scientific and engineering communities, educators, and policy makers. The data published on CAPS is also available through NSIDC's Frozen Ground Data Center web site. The Frozen Ground Data Center holds the most current permafrost and frozen ground data and information. Permafrost, or permanently frozen ground, is ground (soil, sediment or rock) that remains at or below 0 degrees C for at least two years (Permafrost Subcommittee, 1988). It occurs both on land and beneath offshore arctic continental shelves, and underlies approximately 15% of the exposed land surface in the Northern Hemisphere. Permafrost thickness ranges from less than 1 m to greater than 1000 m.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, international permafrost association, paleo-permafrost, modeling, periglacial processes, software, western europe, ease-grid, arctic, poland, rock glaciers, usa, noaa, land surface temperature, russia, sweden, frost, thermometers, soil temperature, ipa, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, permafrost extent, permafrost temperature, mapping, gtn-p, surface air temperature, diurnal freeze, thaw, solar radiation, antarctic master directory, northern europe, monitoring, barometers, southcentral asia, rain gauges, seasonally frozen ground, permafrost features, glaciation, permafrost, global change master directory, land temperature, frozen ground, bts measurements, ice-wedge polygons, sediments, nsf, opp, continent, gcmd, seasonal freeze, thaw, geocryology, north atlantic ocean, national snow and ice data center, air temperature, paleoclimate, cryosols, greenland, usa, nsf, discontinuous permafrost, bedrock, ground ice, soil temperature probe, mongolia, permafrost properties, soils, europe, polar, mountain permafrost, arctic environmental data directory, fixed observation stations, cryosphere, bibliographies, calm, eastern europe, norway, nsidc, international arctic environment data directory, cryopedology, topographic survey, atmospheric temperature, ggd, aedd, field surveys, snow measuring rod, talik, thermal properties, north america, thaw, land records, soil classification, climate change, meteorological stations, add, hydrology, meteorology, thermokarst, svalbard and jan mayen, global terrestrial network for permafrost, netherlands, remote sensing, office of polar programs, national science foundation, freeze, thaw, engineering, anemometers, russian federation, snowpack temperature probe, canada, ocean, snow, amd, soil properties, geographic region, active layer, vegetation, romania, geology, hydrogeology, gis, patterned ground, boreholes, scandinavia, denmark, united states of america, terminology, permafrost distribution, global geocryological database, kazakhstan, snow, ice, continuous permafrost, vertical location, field investigations, soil moisture, periglacial features, circumpolar active layer monitoring program, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, geophysics, thermistors, iceland, land surface, geothermal gradient, tundra, china, soil moisture probe, slope processes, hygrometers, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Weekly Calcite Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean calcite (CLCT) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Coccolithophores are small marine phytoplankton which form external CaCO3 scales (diameter ~ a few m and thickness 250 to 750 nm) called coccoliths. The coccoliths can form multiple layers and eventually detach. Coccolithophores are the largest source of calcium carbonate on earth [Westbroek et al., 1985]. Dissolution of calcite depends on the depth of the calcite compensation depth. Globally, calcium carbonate is responsible for about 75% of the deposition of carbon on the sea floor having a marine origin [Groom and Holligan, 1987; Honjo, 1986; Honjo, 1990], and exceeds organic burial by a factor of seven. Thus, coccolith production is an important part of the biogenic carbon cycle. A global-scale study of their distribution is an important application for MODIS imagery. MODIS is ideal for such a study because of two unique characteristics: first its high radiometric sensitivity should, in principle, allow the detection of smaller quantities of coccoliths than CZCS; and second, the existence of the land bands on MODIS, e.g., band 3 and 4, with their high saturation radiance will enable study of very high concentrations of coccoliths that would saturate a typical ocean color instrument. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 calcite products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The algorithm for extracting the detached coccolith concentration from surface waters is based on the semianalytic model of ocean color of Gordon et al. [1988]. Briefly, the model relates the normalized water-leaving radiance, i.e., the radiance that would exit the ocean if the sun were at the zenith and the atmosphere were removed [Gordon and Clark, 1981], to the absorption and scattering properties of the constituents of the water using radiative transfer theory. The absorption and scattering properties are then related to the constituent concentrations through statistical analysis of direct measurements. Therefore, they represent oceanic- or regional-averaged relationships. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for MODIS Detached Coccolith Concentration http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod23.pdf The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Calcite (CLCT) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, animals, invertebrates, arctic, eos, haptophytes, calcite, biogeochemical cycles, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, calcium carbonate, earth science information partners program, plants, protists, phytoplankton, microalgae, global ocean, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, coccolithophores, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, flagellates, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 9 KM Daily Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Canadian Base Network (CBN) of Monumented Survey Control. ABSTRACT: The Canadian Base Network (CBN) is a network of pillar monumented survey control points with forced-centering plates positioned three-dimensionally. They have GPS to centimetre-level accuracy with respect to the Canadian Active Control System (CACS). The CBN, once completed, will consist of an array of pillars at an average spacing of 200 km in the built-up areas of southern Canada, 500 km in the middle regions of Canada, and 1000 km in the northern regions of Canada. As well as being a GPS control network, the CBN can serve as a monitoring network for deformation studies of the Canadian landmass. The CBN is designed to serve as the new ground segment of monumented survey control in the Canadian Spatial Reference System (CSRS). Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, control surveys, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, latitude, arctic, nad83csrs, british columbia, vertical, nunavut, northwest territories, boundary surveys, horizontal, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, yukon territory, reference systems, csrs, longitude, elevation, vertical location, polar, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, land surface, gps, quebec, alberta, cbn, global positioning system, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, canadian spatial reference system, western hemisphere, canadian base network, 
TITLE: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment 1991 (MLML91). ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland in 2822m of water. Data is available from a mooring fielded from April 29-September 6, 1991. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Data from this experiment include: Meteorological Data Water Velocity Data Temperature Data See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml91 mlml91.html". KEYWORD: meteorological sensors, current meters, velocity averaging wind recorder (vawr 706), brancker temperature recorders, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean circulation, ocean sensors, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Mapped 9 KM Cumulative Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html The SeaWiFS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the SeaWiFS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L555) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T865) -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm, for atmospheric correction (A510) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The SeaWiFS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Mapped. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Yakuta South Alaska Coastal Wildlife Surveys 2004-2005. ABSTRACT: This data set contains coastal survey data for summer and winter for the Yakutat, southern Alaska, region. It covers basic transects for marine wildlife, e.g. waterbirds, seabirds and sea mammals, along the coast. Data were collected with unlimited width surveys (index of relative abundance) from a jetboat (1.5m eye height) on both sides of the boat, throughout the years 2004-2005. In addition, encountered Marbled and Kittlitz's Murrelets were surveyed from one side of the boat with DISTANCE Sampling protocol to obtain compatability, e.g. densities corrected for detectability. This data set contributes to a coastal inventory of coastal wildlife of the U.S. Forest Service Yakutat region, and can be used to assess murrelet abundances in the Northern Pacific waters.. KEYWORD: phalalcrocorax carbo, arctic ocean, great blue heron, biological classification, morus bassanus, yakutat, arctic, kittlitz murrelet density transects, brant, alaska, ecological monitoring, gavia immer, north pacific ocean, red-throated loon, puffinus puffinus, podiceps grisegna, animals, vertebrates, mammals, ocean, greater shearwater, puffinus gravinus, geographic region, usa, usgs, canada goose, ardea herodias, great cormorant, sea mammal surveys, gulf of alaska, brant bernicla, northern gannet, northern pacific, index of relative abundance, branta canadensis, puffinus griseus, polar, seabird monitoring, american black duck, pacific ocean, manx shearwater, earth science, ceos, marbled murrelet density transects, seabird surveys, distance sampling surveys, horned grebe, podiceps auritus, red-necked grebe, southern alaska, gavia stellata, common loon, waterbird surveys, sooty shearwater, 
TITLE: Comprehensive Ocean - Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) LMRF Arctic Subset. ABSTRACT: The Comprehensive Ocean - Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) LMRF Arctic subset contains marine surface weather reports for the region north of 65 degrees N from ships, drifting ice stations, and buoys. COADS is the result of an ongoing project to assemble and reduce machine-readable portions of the available historical ocean-atmosphere record into a regular, compact, easy-to-use database. The COADS LMRF Arctic subset contains data collected over the years 1950 to 1995. The following parameters are included in this data set: air and sea temperature, cloudiness, humidity, and winds. The scientists assembling COADS have attempted to integrate all available digitized, directly sensed surface-marine data sets that would contribute information of reasonable quality. Most of the early data were gathered by ships-of-opportunity. More recent data also come from fixed research vessels, buoys, and other observing devices. Data archived at NSIDC is for the region North of 65 degrees N. for the years 1950-1995. Updates will be made available as they are received at NSIDC. The COADS LMRF Arctic subset consists of 46 data files (one for each year) which are in LMRF (Long Marine Report Fixed-Length, packed binary format), and has a total volume of approximately 201 MB UNIX compressed, and 632 MB uncompressed. The data are in the form of individual marine reports with a given latitude and longitude. A UNIX-based Fortran program is distributed with the data files.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, ice accretion, atmospheric temperature, horizontal velocity, zonal winds, arctic, ships of opportunity, bathythermographs, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, usa, noaa, buoys, wave winds, sea surface, present weather, past weather, physical oceanography, swell height, sea ice, lower cloud amount, humidity, swell period, sea surface temperature, surface pressure, research vessels, surface, visibility, wind speed, wind direction, wave frequency, wave height, swells, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, atmospheric winds, wave direction, ships, earth observing system data information system, ocean, water vapor, wave length, climatology, cloud cover, oceans, wind waves, geographic region, meridional winds, sea level pressure, expendable bathythermographs, vwind, air temperature, clouds, xbt, total cloud amount, marine, eosdis, earth science information partners program, ice thickness, uwind, idn_node gsfc, noaa, oar, erl, cdc, low cloud type, ocean waves, latent heat, surface winds, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, coads, cloud types, wave period, cloud amount, earth science, ceos, cloudiness, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, swell direction, wave types, esip, surface humidity, 
TITLE: Geostrophic Wind Climatology for Canada and its Adjacent Waters. ABSTRACT: This is a gridded dataset of geostrophic winds using daily gridded surface pressure data from the Fleet Numerical Oceanography Centre (FNOC). The results, on a 381 km grid, encompass Canada (including its high arctic locations) and its adjacent waters. MSC uses the FNOC gridded pressure data to develop a wind analysis. It is updated every 2 to 3 years.This data is currently applied in climatological, environmental and engineering research. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point (Lat. Long. Coordinates) Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, newfoundland and labrador, arctic ocean, seasonal data, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, annual data, none, nunavut, northwest territories, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, daily data, grid data, surface winds, digital data, polar, ocean winds, surface pressure, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, canada, ocean, geostrophic winds, prince edward island, new brunswick, climatology, monthly data, upper air, oceans, geographic region, statistics, 
TITLE: LIDAR measurements for PSC studies at middle and high latitudes in southern hemisphere. ABSTRACT: Ozone depletion is one of the key issues on which the investigation of the international community is directed. Its great importance is due to the fact that ozone depletion results in an alteration of the chemical physical equilibrium of the atmosphere. Such alteration can induce variation in the climatology and then potential and real influences on the planetary ecosystem. The phenomenon of ozone depletion is much more evident in the polar stratospheres because of the very low temperatures existing there during the winter (particularly in Antarctica). The observations have established that the phenomenon is directly related to the presence of polar stratospheric clouds (PSCs). The PSCs, which can only form in the low polar temperatures, also produce the dehydration and the denitrification of the stratosphere by the sedimentation of their particles. The removal of water and nitrates increase the lifetime of the active chlorine improving the catalytic ozone depletion. Recently, observations of clouds at high tropospheric and low stratospheric altitudes have established the importance of cirrus clouds for their contribution to the ozone destruction at lower stratospheric levels. Our group possesses two LIDAR stations in Antarctica, one at the American base of McMurdo (MCM), and the second at the French base of Dumont d'Urville (DDU). Both the stations are LIDAR primary stations for the NDSC (Network for Detection of Stratospheric Change). The MCM and the DDU base are favorably placed for the study of the stratospheric phenomena connected to the polar vortex activity, the American base being well inside the polar vortex area and the French base in position such as to make possible measurements at the vortex edge. LIDAR systems operates with a Nd:YAG laser, the transmitter being equipped with a 532 nm channel, pulsed at 10 Hz repetition rate with pulse energy of 200 mJ about. By LIDAR observation retrievals we measure PSC microphysics characteristics, aerosol extinction in the 8-35 km range and the temperature profile in the 30-60 km range, in absence of PSC and aerosol. The LIDAR stations operate continuously since 1993 (MCM) and 1989 (DDU).. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, aerosol particle properties, altitude, atmospheric temperature, aerosols, light detection and ranging, stratosphere dehydration, arctic, clouds, anticyclones, cyclones, ozone, (pacs) atmosphere, tropospheric ozone, mcmurdo, amd, it, (pacs) atmospheric chemistry, tropopause, polar vortex activity, ground stations, lidar, aerosol extinction, elastic backscatter lidar, stratosphere denitrification, air quality, stratospheric clouds, polar, vorticity, fixed observation stations, earth science, oxygen compounds, ozone depletion, stratopause, ceos, dumont d'urville, antarctica, temperature profiles, atmospheric pressure, aerosol backscatter, atmospheric winds, volume depolarisation, atmospheric chemistry, amd, (pacs) atmospheric structure, pressure, density, and temperature (stratosphere, mesosphere, thermosphere, exosphere), geographic region, (pacs) atmospheric composition (atomic or molecular), chemical reactions and processes, 
TITLE: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE) from the the NASA ER2 MODIS Airborne Simulator (MAS) (FIRE_ACE_ER2_MAS). ABSTRACT: This data set consists of radiance measurements from the NASA ER2 Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) Airborne Simulator (MAS) during the First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE).. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, visible radiance, eosdis, nasa er-2, earth science information partners program, first isccp regional experiment, spectral, engineering, fire, infrared radiance, mas, polar, infrared wavelengths, earth science, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, ocean, modis airborne simulator, nasa earth resources-2, esip, geographic region, fire, ace, 
TITLE: Barium Concentrations and Salinity in Arctic River Estuaries, 1993-1996. ABSTRACT: This data set includes measurements of barium concentrations and salinity in samples collected from the estuaries of major Arctic rivers and adjacent shelf areas during 1993 to 1996. Investigators used Niskin bottles to collect water samples. The same samples were used to determine both barium concentrations and salinity. Barium concentrations were determined using isotope-dilution inductively coupled plasma quadrupole mass spectrometry. Salinities were calculated using a laboratory salinometer. Data are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic ocean, pechora river, onr aasert n00014-9311093, arctic, indigirka river, barium, usa, noaa, arctic system science, mackenzie estuary, conductivity, temperature, depth, white sea, ctd, russia, north america, estuaries, kolyma river, terrestrial hydrosphere, ocean chemistry, pcsp, ctd rosette, arctic system science data coordination center, ob river, tuktoyaktuk, office of polar programs, national science foundation, dissolved barium, surface water, bathymetry, seafloor topography, r, v yakov smirnitsky, ships, water depth, ocean, canada, oceans, salinity, density, onr yip n00014-9310318, geographic region, pyasina river, arcss, nsf, opp, nsf, continent, khatanga river, niskin bottles, yenisey river, arctic river estuaries, usa, nsf, yana river, polar continental shelf project, trace elements, arctic estuaries, lena river, onryipn000149310318, arcss107, mass spectrometry, ocean tracers, kugmallit bay, onraasertn000149311093, europe, barents sea, polar, salinity, r, v valerian al'banov, east siberian sea, r, v dmitriy mendeleyev, earth science, ceos, beaufort sea, adcc, laptev sea, eastern europe, water bottles, national science foundation, mackenzie river, rivers, streams, kara sea, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Cumulative Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Data set of Imaging Riometer at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2002. ABSTRACT: The Imaging Riometer is to measure cosmic noise absorption caused by ionosphere with 8 by 8 antennas. It can monitor cosmic noise absorption at ionosphere D-region with spatial dimension of 300300 km.The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, imaging riometers, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, solar energetic particle properties, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, solar activity, solar energetic particle flux, amd, geographic region, ground-based observations, 
TITLE: Real-time and Historical Marine Meteorological and Oceanographic Data from NOAA's National Data Buoy Center (NDBC). ABSTRACT: NOAA's National Data Buoy Center (NDBC) offers real-time and historical data from its moored buoys, drifting buoy data, and C-MAN (Coastal-Marine Automated Network)stations. Data are transmitted hourly via the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites (GOES) and commercial satellites. Some data are transmitted half hourly. NDBC also functions as a Data Assembly Center (DAC) for the U.S. Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS). As the U.S. DAC, NDBC receives, quality controls, and distributes data from numerous data contributors. Most stations measure wind speed and direction, wind gust, barometric pressure and air temperature. All buoys and some C-MAN stations measure sea surface temperature, wave height, and wave period. Monthly and annual climatic summary tables are available. Stations are located throughout U.S. coastal waters including U.S. Atlantic coast, U.S. Pacific coast, Gulf of Alaska, Bering Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Great Lakes and Hawaiian Islands. Some stations are also located in the western equatorial Pacific. Real-time data are available hourly (for at least the last 24 hours) in tabular form. After several days, data is quality-controlled and appended to daily data files. Archives of monthly and annual data may also be accessed, except for some non-NDBC stations. The following types of quality-controlled data are available: standard meteorological data, continuous winds data, spectral wave density data, spectral wave direction data, water level data, ocean current profile data,and ocean surface current data. Data are available through NDBC's WWW server using the station locator map or the station ID list and search: http:  www.ndbc.noaa.gov stations.shtml Data are available by RSS: see http:  www.ndbc.noaa.gov rss_access.shtml Dial-A-Buoy phone number: 888-701-8992 Email data service is available: see http:  www.ndbc.noaa.gov email_access.shtml FTP service is also available: ftp:  tgftp.nws.noaa.gov Anonymous FTP: http:  seaboard.ndbc.noaa.gov and give email address as the password cd data observations marine  [This summary updated November, 2007.]. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, current meters, atmospheric temperature, water level, mid-latitude, arctic, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, usa, noaa, buoys, u.s. west coast, sea surface, venezuela, sea surface topography, significant wave height, russia, north america, south america, noaa geostationary operational environmental satellites, north pacific ocean, air quality, sea surface temperature, visibility, goes, wind speed, direction, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, ocean, canada, gulf of mexico, oceans, ocean pressure, geographic region, u.s. east coast, ecuador, continent, moorings, sea level pressure, gust speed, north atlantic ocean, gulf of alaska, air temperature, peru, equatorial, united states of america, ocean waves, europe, colombia, surface winds, bering sea, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, wave spectra, great lakes, pacific ocean, wave period, earth science, ceos, coastal marine network, usa, nasa, atmospheric pressure, eastern europe, coastal processes, sea surface height, acoustic doppler current profiler, equatorial pacific, current speed, direction, c-man, atlantic ocean, adcp, ocean circulation, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: Year-round Urban Raven Surveys in Fairbanks, Interior Alaska 2004-2006. ABSTRACT: This dataset presents Raven (Corvus corax) survey data carried out for over two years at a supermarket parking lot (app. 300m*600m), strip mall, in Fairbanks, interior Alaska app. 120 miles south of the arctic circle. Data were collected bi-weekly, or with a higher frequency, on Sundays or Saturdays between 8 AM and 11 AM by driving on the parking lot for 15 minutes; detectability is believed to be 100 %. This results into unbiased surveys providing a snap shot in time. Other opportunistic surveys were included as well, e.g. collected during the week or from locations nearby. The parking lot represents a typical situation of Ravens in an urban habitat. Ravens were scanned for bands and marks, but none were found. Moult and age were also noted. Basic Raven behaviour is also reported, as well as state of the parking lot in regards to parked trucks and cars, food items, garbage, fast food left-overs, snow and climate. All other bird species were recorded as well, e.g. common gulls (Larus canus) in summer (almost no other species were seen). Bird abundance seems to be driven by food items on the parking lot, e.g. provided by an adjacent fast food restaurant and by left-overs from parties at the parking lot from the previous night. The numbers of Ravens at this study site are relatively small (app. 15 birds in winter and none in summer) and consistent patterns are shown. It is believed that the described situation applies to many other supermarket parking lots in the vicinity as well. It is suggested that these 2 years of data are unique and represent baseline information relevant for Ravens in the interior of Alaska; they are a simple but powerful snapshot in time and when put into an overall ecological context. Provides basic information on Raven abundance, behaviour and related information in a quantitative fashion for interior Alaska.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, biological classification, ecological dynamics, urban ecology, arctic, earth science, ceos, birds, biosphere, fairbanks, population dynamics, animals, vertebrates, united states of america, strip mall, interior alaska, north america, full year surveys, alaska, species, population interactions, geographic region, common raven, corvus corax, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Modern and fossil ostracode census data from the Western Pacific Ocean and seas around Japan. ABSTRACT: This data set is part of the Pliocene Research, Interpretation, and Synoptic Mapping (PRISM) Project. Data or information about the data set can be obtained online via the World Wide Web at: URL> "http:  geochange.er.usgs.gov pub PRISM ostracodes pacific " or ftp: ftp> geochange.er.usgs.gov in  pub PRISM ostracodes "ftp:  geochange.er.usgs.gov pub PRISM ostracodes" The following information about the data set was provided by the data center contact: This data set describes marine ostracode species and related sample and stratigraphic information produced as part of the USGS PRISM Project (Pliocene Research, Interpretation, and Synoptic Mapping). The general goals of PRISM are to reconstruct global climate during a period of extreme warmth about 3 million years ago and to determine the causes of the warmth and the subsequent climatic change towards colder climates about 2.5 million years ago. To do this, PRISM has been studying Pliocene deposits and their microfaunas and, by comparison with modern assemblages, estimating past boundary conditions such as ocean temperatures. To obtain more reliable estimates of past environments in paleoclimate studies, the use of ecologically sensitive species requires extensive modern datasets on living species with limited environmental tolerances. Thus, much of the data generated by PRISM consists of species counts from modern samples that form a "coretop" dataset applicable not only to PRISM Pliocene assemblages but also to Quaternary assemblages as well. This situation was especially true for ostracodes, a group of Crustacea that includes many species that have limited range of water temperatures required for survival, reproduction, or both. Fossil assemblages of ostracodes can therefore yield information on past bottom water conditions on continental shelves in the mixed ocean layer above the thermocline and they are especially useful where planktic foraminifers are rare or absent. However comprehensive datasets with quantitative ostracode data were not available for application to regional paleoceanographic studies. Further, because of the endemic nature of ostracodes living on continental shelves, separate modern datasets needed to be developed for regions of the Pacific, Atlantic and Arctic Oceans. The data contained in the files in this folder come from the western North Pacific Ocean, mainly the seas around Japan. These regions encompass subtropical to cold temperate and subfrigid marine climate zones and include faunas from the major Western North Pacific water masses such as the Oyashio and Kuroshio current systems. The ostracode data sets were developed in collaboration with Prof. Noriyuki Ikeya, Institute of Geosciences, Shizuoka University, Shizuoka, Japan, Prof. Ikeya's students, and other Japanese colleagues, with support from the USGS Global Change and Climate History Program and grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF grant INT: LTV-9013402) and the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS grant EPAR- 093). Most of the faunal slides are housed at Shizuoka University. Separate PRISM ostracode data sets contain modern and Pliocene species data from continental shelves of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans and from deep sea environments. Among the various types of quantitative analyses used to evaluate the ostracode data, the Squared Chord Distance (SCD) coefficient of dissimilarity was found to be useful in identifying modern analog assemblages for fossil assemblages on the basis of the proportions of shared species between two samples. The ostracode data and analyses of them are discussed in detail in the following published scientific papers: Ikeya, Noriyuki and Cronin, Thomas. M., 1993, Quantitative analysis of Ostracoda and water masses around Japan: Application to Pliocene and Pleistocene paleoceanography: Micropaleontology, v. 39, p. 263-281. Cronin, T.M., Kitamura, A., Ikeya, N., Watanabe, M., and Kamiya, T., in press. Late Pliocene climate change 3.4-2.3 Ma: Paleoceanographic record from the Yabuta Formation, Sea of Japan: Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology.. KEYWORD: biological classification, crustaceans, japan, arthropods, water temperature, ocean temperature, ostracods, ostracodes, alaska, gcchp, ostracode, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, ostracoda, prism, north pacific ocean, paleoclimatology, pelagic habitat, pliocene, pleistocene, biosphere, pleistocene, research, interpretation, and synoptic mapping project, korea, ocean, paleo start date, oceans, global change climate history project, neogene, usa, usgs, microfossils, continent, animals, invertebrates, cenozoic, paleoclimate, marine, modern, stratigraphic sequence, ocean, lake records, paleo stop date, marine sediments, biogeography, pacific ocean, asia, eastern asia, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, china, faunal census, idn_node gsfc, gcrp, 
TITLE: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE) University of Washington CV580 Aircraft (FIRE_ACE_UWCV580_UWA). ABSTRACT: This data set consists of measurements provided by the University of Washington instruments flown onboard their CV580 aircraft during the FIR ACE SHEBA field campaign.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, altitude, atmospheric temperature, aerosols, arctic, cloud emissivity, air temperature, clouds, visible radiance, eosdis, cv-580, earth science information partners program, first isccp regional experiment, convair cv-580, humidity, spectral, engineering, fire, cloud condensation nuclei, infrared radiance, polar, infrared wavelengths, barometric altitude, cloud reflectance, cloud liquid water, ice, earth science, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, atmospheric water vapor, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, aerosol backscatter, visible wavelengths, earth observing system data information system, ocean, water vapor, esip, geographic region, fire, ace, dew point temperature, 
TITLE: First ISCCP Regional Experiment (FIRE) Arctic Cloud Experiment (ACE) Radiation Measurement System (RAMS) (FIRE_ACE_C130_RAMS). ABSTRACT: This data set consists of data provided by Scripps' Radiation Measurement System (RAMS) flown onboard the NCAR C-130 aircraft during the FIRE ACE field campaign.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, shortwave radiation, arctic, solar flux, eosdis, earth science information partners program, first isccp regional experiment, radiation measurement system, fire, radiative flux, rams, polar, narrowband flux, earth science, solar radiation, outgoing longwave radiation, usa, nasa, c-130, beaufort sea, infrared flux, first isccp regional experiment arctic cloud experiment, lockheed c-130 hercules, longwave radiation, earth observing system data information system, ocean, esip, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, incoming solar radiation, fire, ace, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m ISIN Grid V001. ABSTRACT: Snow cover products from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) include level 2 swath data and level 3 gridded daily and eight-day composites, at 500 m resolution. A snow mapping algorithm, based on the Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests, is used to process MODIS data. The eight day level 3 product (MOD10A21) contains fields for maximum snow cover extent over an eight day compositing period, and a chronology of snow occurrence observations. This 500 m product consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of data gridded in an integerized sinusoidal map projection. Snow cover data and supporting attributes are in HDF-EOS format, and are available by ftp.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, global, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, northern hemisphere, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, snomap, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, southern hemisphere, amd, esip, geographic region, swath, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Seabird surveys and selected environmental data sets in the Bay of Fundy: findings and conclusions from monthly ferry transects Saint John - Digby - Saint John. ABSTRACT: This data set contains monthly survey data from the Saint John ? Digby ferry, Bay of Fundy, Canada, including harbour counts. It covers waterbird, seabird and some sea mammal data, collected with unlimited width surveys (relative abundance) from 180 degrees of the ferry (PIROP protocol) through the years 1996-1998.. KEYWORD: seabird ecology, great blue heron, biological classification, minke whale, stercorarius parasiticus, ecological dynamics, arctic, red-breasted merganser, dovekie, melanitta perspicillata, falco peregrinus, bonaparte's gull, haliaeetus leucocephalus, mallard, great black-backed gull, puffinus, maritimes (canada), anas rubripes, alca uria, stercorarius pomarinus, grant manan island, larus argentatus, american wigeon, fratercula arctica, gulf of maine, grebe species, iceland gull, biosphere, cormorant, harbour seal, sternus vulgaris, larus hyperboreus, animals, vertebrates, anas americana, atlantic puffin, razorbill, harbour porpoise, larus philadephia, larus glaucoides, rissa tridactyla, humpback whale, phalacrocorax, continent, riparia riparia, scoter, puffinus gravinis, north atlantic ocean, common eider, sea mammal surveys, shearwater species, large auk, birds, phocidae, balaenoptera acutorostrata, larus marinus, podiceps, index of relative abundance, corvus corax, polar, seabird monitoring, columba livia, double-crested cormorant, manx shearwater, plectrophenax nivalis, seabird surveys, population dynamics, black scoter, halichoerus grypus, mergus serrator, cepphus grylle, common loon, uria aalge, bank swallow, common raven, sooty shearwater, laridae, larus delawarensis, phalacrocorax carbo, morus bassanus, fulmarus glacialis, atlantic canada, aves, dark-eyed junco, great skua, north america, the wolves archipelago, gavia immer, parasitic jaeger, true seals, stercorarius skua, oceanodroma leurcorhoa, red-throated loon, snow bunting, pomarine jaeger, long-tailed duck, bay of fundy, common murre, canada, ocean, greater shearwater, melanitta, geographic region, melanitta nigra, usa, usgs, leach's storm-petrel, balaenoptera physalus, peregrine falcon, ardea herodias, waterfowl sp, northern fulmar, anatidae, melanitta fusca, surf scoter, great cormorant, alca torda, seal, bald eagle, somateria mollissima, european starling, podiceps grisegena, northern gannet, corvus brachyrhynchos, american crow, anas platyrhynchos, hirundo rustica, black guillemot, gull, puffinus griseus, american black duck, ring-billed gull, gray seal, phocoena phocoena, phoca vitulina, earth science, junco hyemalis, ceos, phocid, clangula hyemails, horned grebe, glaucous gull, black-legged kittiwake, finback whale, podiceps auritus, red-necked grebe, white-winged scoter, species, population interactions, alle alle, rock dove, herring gull, atlantic ocean, gavia stellata, megaptera novaeangliae, waterbird surveys, phalacrocorax auritus, 
TITLE: Parks Canada Geomatics Metadata Repository. ABSTRACT: The Parks Canada Geomatics Metadata Repository makes the following Biophysical Inventory datasets available for: -Cape Breton Highlands National Parks -Georgian Bay National Park -Point Pelee National Park -Riding Mountain National Park Datasets includes a wide range of information on vegetation, soil type, soil texture, landforms, surficial material, hydrology, etc.The information provided by the datasets is intended to contribute as the ecological basis for the park resource management. The biophysical and associated descriptions of individual environmental components provide the base information for further study, management, site and master planning, interpretation, monitoring and environmental impact assessment. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point, Vector, Raster Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, biological classification, geomorphology, mid-latitude, manitoba, ecological dynamics, arctic, british columbia, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, boundaries, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, nova scotia, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, surface water, canada, cgdi, hudson bay, mammals, canada, new brunswick, great bear lake, geographic region, western hemisphere, national parks, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, vegetation, nunavut, birds, northwest territories, agriculture, united states of america, saskatchewan, soils, cultural features, wildlife, vertical location, polar, great lakes, earth science, ceos, land surface, quebec, alberta, prince edward island, infrastructure, fish, species, population interactions, endangered species, historical sites, 
TITLE: CODAR Satellite Overlays: Standard. ABSTRACT: CODAR (Coastal Ocean RADAR) Overlays on SST Satellite images The satellite images that correspond with the CODAR (Coastal Ocean Radar) data, is described in detail in the following online documentation: "http:  marine.rutgers.edu mrs education class josh hf_radar.html". The RADAR records current speeds and directions on the ocean surface, which are show as arrows of varying sizes. CODAR is used during our intense summer research experiments along the New Jersey shore. Data is available for: 1998 Codar Overlays 1999 Codar Overlays 2000 (Jan-July). KEYWORD: continent, sst, north america, earth science, new jersey, oceans, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, nasa, sea surface temperature, 
TITLE: NWT Minerals Database (NORMIN), Mineral Showings. ABSTRACT: This is a database of Northwest Territories mineral showings. It includes data on each showing's location, development stage, commodities, geological characteristics, and exploration history. Showings are cross linked to reference records in the NORMIN References database. Downloadable descriptions are available for over 2300 mineral occurrences and deposits.To assist mineral exploration, land use planning, resource assessment, and geoscientific research. To facilitate discovery of the type and nature of anomalous mineral occurrences in any part of the NWT, and to provide links to further information about each occurrence.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, minerals, natural resources, arctic, mineral exploration, metals, geology, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, mineral occurrence, north america, human dimensions, polar, earth science, radioactive elements, ceos, igneous rocks, mining, metamorphic rocks, bedrock lithology, sedimentary rocks, non-metallic minerals, economics, canada, cgdi, canada, economic resources, coal, rocks, minerals, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Marine mammals exploring the oceans pole to pole. ABSTRACT: Marine Mammals Exploring the Oceans Pole to Pole (MEOP) will deploy state-of-the-art animal-borne CTD (Conductivity-Temperature-Depth) tags on strategically chosen, deep-diving marine mammal species to explore their current movement patterns, behaviour and habitat utilization in Polar Regions. Deployments will take place on the deepest diving seals in the Arctic and Antarctic  hooded seals in the north and elephant seals in the south. Additionally, to maximise ice-filled water coverage, deployments will also take place on Weddell seals and crabeater seals. Concomitant with the sampling of ecological data sets on these top predators, the animals will themselves (via the equipment they carry) collect a vast, high-precision oceanographic data set from logistically difficult areas of ocean in Polar Seas at the fringes of the North and South Atlantic and the South Pacific that are strategically important to climate and ocean modelling. Co-operation between programmes within IPY will provide MEOP with comprehensive, synoptic oceanographic coverage that will allow us, for the first time ever at this level, to quantify factors determining habitat selection by key polar marine mammal species. In turn, our ocean data sets will contribute significantly to modelling ocean circulation patterns and serve as input to advanced climate models. KEYWORD: continent, biological classification, marine mammal exploration of the oceans pole to pole, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean temperature, meop, amd, no, arctic, no, greenland, seals, sea lions, walruses, north america, water masses, fresh water flux, south atlantic ocean, advection, framstretet, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, ceos, bouvet island, greenland sea, animals, vertebrates, carnivores, ipy, mammals, ocean, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Zhongshan Station NOAA Satellite AVHRR Data of the 16th Chinese Antarctic Research. ABSTRACT: The database is NOAA meteorological satellite AVHRR data in form 1B from the ground reception system at Zhongshan Station of the 16th Chinese Antarctic Research.. KEYWORD: advanced very high resolution radiometer, continent, polar, arctic, earth science, ceos, visible radiance, antarctica, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, geographic region, avhrr, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Mapped 4 KM Daily Fluorescence Line Height Data. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of global ocean Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The fluorescence line height product (parameter 2575) is part of the chlorophyll fluorescence product group (MODIS Product 20). Although fluorescence has been used for decades to estimate phytoplankton chlorophyll concentrations, our eventual focus will be on its use in estimating primary productivity. The Aqua MODIS Level-3 fluorescence line height products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods. Spatial resolutions of 4 and 9 km are available. The fluorescence line height algorithm is a relative measure of the amount of radiance leaving the sea surface, which is presumably a result of chlorophyll fluorescence. By constructing a baseline using bands on either side of the fluorescence band, we can estimate the deviation from the amount of radiance expected for pure water that results from chlorophyll fluorescence. This increase in radiance (centered at 683 nm for chlorophyll) has been noted for decades in measurements of the light field in the ocean. This signal is generally weak, even in regions of high chlorophyll concentrations. To measure fluorescence, the signal to noise ratio (SNR) was increased for the fluorescence band and the adjacent baseline bands at 665.1 nm (band 13) and 746.3 nm (band 15). The fluorescence measurement itself is made at 676.7 nm (band 14) as a compromise between measuring the fluorescence peak (683 nm) and the presence of an oxygen absorption band at 687 nm. For more detailed information, see the Algorithm Theoretical Basis Document (ATBD) for Chlorophyll Fluorescence (MODIS Product Number 20) http:  modis.gsfc.nasa.gov data atbd atbd_mod22.pdf Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Fluorescence Line Height (FLH) data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA L3SMI . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ecological dynamics, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, fluorescence, global ocean, ocean optics, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, usa, nasa, biosphere, ecosystem functions, primary production, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Ozone Concentration from the MAP WINE Experiment at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). ABSTRACT: This data set contains profiles of ozone concentration obtained using rocket-based techniques recorded at Volgograd, Europe and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean) carried out under the MAP WINE Project. The techniques used were: + chemiluminescent techniques mounted at the parachuting payloads launched at the Heiss Island station. Five profiles were obtained for heights within 4-46 km, height resolution 2 km. + optical absorption techniques mounted at the parachuting payloads launched at Volgograd station. Three profiles were obtained for heights within 18-54 km, height resolution 2 km. + electrochemical balloon ozonemeter launched at Volgograd station. Four profiles were obtained for heights within 4-32 km, height resolution 2 km. The MAP WINE (Middle Atmosphere Program Winter in Northern Europe) was one of the MAP projects scheduled for Fall-Winter 1983-1984. The aim was to coordinate observational studies of the high-latitude European middle atmosphere in winter, leading to an improved understanding of the winter variability structure, motions, and composition.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, arctic, rockets, troposphere, ozone, middle atmosphere program, winter in northern europe, russia, map, wine, volgograd, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, stratosphere, polar, vertical location, trace gases, trace species, earth science, oxygen compounds, usa, nasa, heiss island, eastern europe, atmospheric chemistry, ocean, climatology, upper air, geographic region, 
TITLE: EXPLORER'S COVE METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Precipitation. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology explore.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Explorer's Cove meteorological station. The above data set includes precipitation amount measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arws, continent, polar, precipitation amount, amd, us, meteorology, lter, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter automatic weather network, precipitation, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: Arctic Sea Ice Melt Pond Statistics and Maps, 1999, 2000, and 2001. ABSTRACT: Visible band imagery from high-resolution satellites were acquired over four Arctic Ocean sites (three in 1999) during the summers of 1999, 2000, and 2001. The sites were within the median extent of the perennial ice pack. Imagery was analyzed using supervised maximum likelihood classification to derive either two (water and ice) or three (pond, open water, and ice) surface classes. Clouds were masked by hand. The data set consists of tables of pond coverage and size statistics for 500 m square cells within 10 km square images (image resolution is 1 meter), along with the surface type maps called Image Derived Products (IDPs) from which the pond statistics were derived. A total of 101 images over the three summers and four sites were used for pond statistics, out of a total of 1056 images acquired. The images are irregularly spaced in time. Data are stored in MIcrosoft Excel format and ASCII text, image files are stored as GeoTIFF binary images, browse images in PNG, and JPG image files, and are available from August 1999 and generally for May into September for 2000 and 2001 via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, visible imagery, sea ice concentration, arctic, usa, noaa, sea ice, spectral, engineering, heat flux, ice growth, melt, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, albedo, satellites, polar, ice floes, ice roughness, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, melt pond area, visible wavelengths, ocean, oceans, geographic region, melt pond size statistics, 
TITLE: Western Arctic Mooring CTD and ADCP Data, 1992-1995. ABSTRACT: This data set contains temperature, salinity, and current meter data collected from instrument moorings set at various depths in the Barrow Canyon of the northeast Chukchi Sea. The collection period ranges from September 1992 through September 1995. Data are in ASCII format and available via ftp.. KEYWORD: ocean currents, nsf, nsidc, current meters, arctic ocean, moorings, temperature sensors, arctic, opp-9218756, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, arcss054, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, cape lisburne, bering strait, seacat, polar, salinity, current meter, opp9218756, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arctic system science, ocean-atmosphere-ice interactions, national science foundation, acoustic doppler current profiler, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, arcss, oaii, geographic region, chukchi sea, adcp, ocean circulation, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, conductivity temperature depth probes, herald shoal, barrow canyon, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Aqua Snow Cover 8-Day L3 Global 500m Grid (MYD10A2) contains data fields for maximum snow cover extent over an eight-day compositing period and a chronology of snow occurrence observations in HDF-EOS format, along with corresponding metadata. MYD10A2 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. Data extend from 04 July 2002 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, earth observing system, aqua, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: Marine Surface Observations-FNWC Automatic Digital Information Network (AUTODIN) Synoptic (DSI-1145). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Fleet Numerical Weather Center (FNWC) in Monterey, California since 1982 is producing a global data set from the Automatic Digital Information Network (AUTODIN). These data are hourly observations from global ship observations. Parameters included in the hourly observations are the following: Air, sea, and dew point temperature; cloud cover; humidity; pressure; winds; weather; surface currents; sea surface heights; waves; swell; and sea ice. Information on the AUTODIN ship data tapes is written on 9-track tape at 1600CPI. Each line of information contains 80 characters, with blank fill to the right of the last non-blank character. Each record on the tape contains from one to 20 such lines. Thus the length of any record will be 80 n characters where n is more than 1 and less than 20. (Maximum record length is 1600 characters.) Information from each AUTODIN data cut is blocked as follows: a. All except the last record for this data cut will contain 20 lines (1600 characters). b. The last record for the cut will contain from one to 20 lines. All of the information on the tape is contained in one file (An end-of-file is NOT used to separate data cuts). There are two consecutive ends of file at the end of information. As of 05 January 1982, there will be eight cuts per day, at hours 02Z, 03Z,08Z, 09Z, 14Z, 15Z, 20Z, and 21z. Cut-times and dates which appear in the first line of information for each cut may be used as a key to check for missing data. However, the number of cuts per day might be changed in the future, so any computer program which checks these cut-times should be designed to allow more and or different cut hours. A missing cut-time will not always indicate missing reports; in rare situations, machine problems may cause one cut to be missed, but the AUTODIN input tape for the cut might be loaded on a later cut. PURPOSE: To make a wide range of climatic data available to researchers and the public. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ice extent, ocean currents, arctic ocean, ceilometers, atmospheric temperature, temperature sensors, wave height gauges, arctic, water temperature, ocean temperature, usa, noaa, ice types, sea ice, humidity, global ocean, thermometers, caribbean sea, sea surface temperature, air quality, lightning, visibility, atmospheric phenomena, surface air temperature, wave height, swells, anemometers, barometers, atmospheric water vapor, cloud height, ships, ocean, oceans, amd, gosic, geographic region, indian ocean, fog, icebergs, sea level pressure, cloud ceiling, north atlantic ocean, global, air temperature, clouds, mediterranean sea, noaa climate and global change program, earth science information partners program, wind vanes, ice edges, visual observations, g3os, , ocean waves, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, southern ocean, ice floes, cloud types, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, atmospheric pressure, cloud amount, frequency, sea state, atlantic ocean, hygrometers, esip, storms, ocean circulation, cgc, dew point temperature, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Mixed Layer Experiment 1989 (MLML89)-Meteorological Data. ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland. Data is available from a buoy fielded from April 13-June 10, 1989. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Meteorological Data from this experiment include: 11280 records Sample Rate: 15 minutes Parameters: Air Temperature, Relative Humidity, Barometric Pressure, Sea temperature, East and North Wind Speeds, Shortwave (Solar) Radiation, and Longwave Radiation See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml89 mlml89met.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, atmospheric temperature, sea level pressure, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, air temperature, open-source project for a network data access protocol, earth science information partners program, humidity, surface winds, meteorological sensors, earth science, solar radiation, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, ocean, buoy position, water vapor, dods, oceans, esip, atlantic ocean, opendap, atmospheric radiation, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 1B Data Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color and SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Level 1B data set contains calibrated and geolocated at-aperture radiances generated from Level 1A sensor counts and GEO files. Additional data are provided, including quality flags, error estimates, and calibration data. There are differences between the Level 1B produced and distributed by OBPG and the Standard Level 1B files (MYD021KM, MYD02HKM, MYD02QKM) produced by MODIS Calibration Support Team (MCST). This is because OBPG uses the Ocean subsetted Level 1A products as input to the Level 1B processing. The Ocean subsetted products contain only those bands that are used for Ocean product generation. The standard Level-1B processing code (MYD_PR02) is developed and maintained by the MODIS Calibration Support Team (MCST). The OBPG uses a slightly modified version of MYD_PR02 to handle subsetted Level-1A. Information about the OBPG MODIS Level-1B products can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov PRODUCTS Level_1B.html Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 1 data at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi browse.pl?sen=am Aqua MODIS Level 1B daytime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Day  Aqua MODIS Level 1B nighttime data for the most-recent days can be downloaded by FTP at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Recent_Night . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, visible imagery, arctic, eos, infrared imagery, visible radiance, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, spectral, engineering, global ocean, sensor counts, reflected infrared, infrared radiance, thermal infrared, modis, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, visible wavelengths, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent Daily L3 Global 1km EASE-Grid Night (MOD29P1N) contains the following fields: ice surface temperature (IST), IST spatial QA, and sea ice by IST in HDF-EOS format along with corresponding metadata. Version 4 (V004) is the latest version of MODIS data available. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. The sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, terra, arctic, ease-grid, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, climatology, oceans, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, swath, 
TITLE: Reduced-Resolution QuickBird Imagery and Related GIS Layers for Barrow, Alaska, USA. ABSTRACT: This data set contains reduced-resolution QuickBird imagery and geospatial data for the entire Barrow QuickBird image area 156.15 W - 157.07 W, 71.15 N - 71.41 N) and the Barrow B4 Quadrangle (156.29 W - 156.89 W, 71.25 N - 71.40 N), for use in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing software. The original QuickBird data sets were acquired by DigitialGlobe from 1 to 2 August 2002, and consist of orthorectified satellite imagery. Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)-compliant metadata for all value-added data sets are provided in text, HTML, and XML formats. Accessory layers include: 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS Digital Raster Graphic (DRG) mosaic images (GeoTIFF format); 1:250,000- and 1:63,360-scale USGS quadrangle index maps (ESRI Shapefile format); an index map for the 62 QuickBird tiles (ESRI Shapefile format); and a simple polygon layer of the extent of the Barrow QuickBird image area and the Barrow B4 quadrangle area (ESRI Shapefile format). The baseline geospatial data support education, outreach, and multi-disciplinary research of environmental change in Barrow, which is an area of focused scientific interest. Data are available either via FTP or on CD-ROM.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, visible imagery, digital elevation model, surface radiative properties, arctic, infrared imagery, national snow and ice data center, infrared, usa, noaa, gis, usa, nsf, digitalglobe's quickbird, united states of america, satellite imagery, opp0224071, north america, alaska, aspect, arcss305, spectral, engineering, reflected infrared, barrow, polar, digital mapping, infrared wavelengths, mapping, maps, reflectance, panchromatic, earth science, quickbird, ceos, remote sensing, office of polar programs, national science foundation, land surface, orri, quickbird ball high resolution camera 60, multispectral, orthorectified radar imagery, visible wavelengths, quickbird, bhrc-60, digital surface model, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, topographic maps, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: Scanning Photometer Data in Zhongshan Station, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: The Meridian Scanning Photometer installed at Zhongshan Station is one of the Polar Research Institute of China (PRIC) and the National Institute of Polar Research (NIPR) of Japan cooperative projects, which observes aurora variations in three wavelengths (427.8nm, 557.7nm and 630nm) along the invariant meridian; its scanning range extends almost from horizon to horizon. The observation was started in March 1995. However, it was interrupted during the period of July 1995 through Feb. 1997. The data is only valid for dark time. In other words, there is no valid data during the middle of October to the beginning of March every year.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, earth science, ceos, photometer, aurora, antarctica, photometers, zhongshan station, visible wavelengths, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, spectral, engineering, amd, sensor counts, aurorae, geographic region, 
TITLE: Northern North America Sea Level Changes. ABSTRACT: 38 Excel spreadsheets listing radiocarbon dates and associated information pertaining to changes of sea level in northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland since the last glacial maximum. About 8000 radiocarbon dates are arranged into regional data sets and about 400 plots showing local sea-level histories.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to the present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, north atlantic ocean, british columbia, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, united states of america, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, land records, north pacific ocean, polar, geochemistry, pacific ocean, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, environment, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, radiocarbon, ice core records, atlantic ocean, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Water Vapor Concentration from the MAP WINE Experiment at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). ABSTRACT: This data set contains profiles of water vapor concentration obtained by rocket-based techniques recorded at Volgograd, USSR and Heiss Island (Arctic Ocean). The measurements were carried out under the MAP WINE Project. Culonometrical techniques were mounted on the parachuting payloads and data was obtained for the height interval 10-60 km. There are four profiles for the days of the MAP WINE calendar when rocket salvoes were made. Height resolution of profiles is 5 km. The MAP WINE (Middle Atmosphere Program Winter in Northern Europe) was one of the MAP projects scheduled for Fall-Winter 1983-1984. The aim was to coordinate observational studies of the high-latitude European middle atmosphere in winter, leading to an improved understanding of the winter variability structure, motions, and composition.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, continent, mid-latitude, arctic, rockets, ionosphere, middle atmosphere program, winter in northern europe, russia, map, wine, humidity, mesosphere, idn_node gsfc, wdcb, europe, stratosphere, vertical location, polar, earth science, usa, nasa, atmospheric water vapor, eastern europe, ocean, water vapor, climatology, water vapor profiles, geographic region, 
TITLE: Data from the Second European Stratospheric Arctic and Mid-Latitude Experiment (SESAME) 1994-5. ABSTRACT: The Second European Stratospheric Arctic and Middle Latitude Experiment (SESAME) started in February 1994 and lasted through 1995. The highest scientific priority of SESAME was to understand the observed long term trends in middle latitude ozone. Processes occuring in, and connecting, the lower stratosphere of high and middle northern latitudes were studied. The specific measurement objectives included: i) The study of chlorine partitioning ii) The study of nitrogen partitioning iii) The study of HOx species iv) Study of polar stratospheric clouds (PSCs) and aerosols v) Measurements of ozone The data from the SESAME campaign cover a wide geographical area. Measurements were performed by a wide variety of instruments and instrument platforms, and the experimental data are supported by model studies. The contents of the SESAME data set include measurements from ozone sondes, groundbased spectrometers, lidars (aerosols and ozone), balloon borne instruments and airborne instruments. The data are all in NASA Ames format. They are currently available from the data base at the Norwegian Institute for Air Research (NILU). The data will be availabale on CD-ROM. Additional Sensors: Sensor Name: AIRCRAFT-BORNE LIDAR Sensor Name: AIRCRAFT-BORNE FTIR Sensor Name: AIRCRAFT-BORNE UV-VIS Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE FTIR Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE UV-VIS Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE MW SPECTROMETER Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE GRAB SAMPLERS Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE HYGROMETER Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE PARTICLE COUNTERS Sensor Name: BALLOON-BORNE NOY SENSOR Sensor Name: GROUND-BASED FTIR Sensor Name: GROUND-BASED MW SPECTROMETER Sensor Name: GROUND-BASED UV-VIS Sensor Name: GROUND-BASED OZONE LIDAR Sensor Name: GROUND-BASED AEROSOL LIDAR Sensor Name: BREWER SPECTROPHOTOMETER Description: Example images are availiable at "http:  www.atm.ch.cam.ac.uk " Caption: Example SESAME Data Set Progress: Ongoing update. KEYWORD: atmosphere, total ozone mapping spectrometer, light detection and ranging, arctic, chlorine dioxide, halocarbons and halogens, nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, nimbus-7, polar stratospheric clouds, humidity, ground stations, air quality, nitrogen compounds, trace gases, trace species, second european stratospheric arctic and mid-latitute experiment, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric chemistry, water vapor, chlorofluorocarbons, spectrometers, spectrophotometers, methane, meteor-3, sesame, geographic region, tiros operational vertical sounder, dobson spectrophotometers, continent, nitrous oxide, balloons, fourier transform infrared spectrometer, ozone, tovs, esa, esrin, tiros, toms, grab samplers, lidar, europe, stratosphere, hydroflouric acid, vertical location, polar, ftir spectrometer, ozonesondes, bromine monoxide, aircraft, earth science, oxygen compounds, ceos, idn node esrin, chlorine monoxide, television infrared observation satellite, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, nitrogen oxides, hygrometers, hydrochloric acid, trace elements, trace metals, 
TITLE: Eastern Colorado Palmer Drought Severity Index Reconstruction, NOAA NGDC WDC Paleoclimatology. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of Eastern Colorado May June July Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) Reconstruction based on tree ring chronologies in the western Great Plains and Front Range. [Abstract] A sustained mid-19th century drought in the western Great Plains has been indicated by a tree-ring analysis of trees flanking the western Great Plains, and in tree-ring reconstructions of drought and streamflow for eastern Colorado and the Colorado Front Range. The development of new tree-ring chronologies for the western Great Plains, in combination with existing chronologies, now enables a more detailed assessment of the spatial and temporal characteristics of this drought. The analysis of a set of drought-sensitive tree-ring chronologies ranging from the northwestern Great Plains to central New Mexico indicates a core area of drought from south-central Wyoming to northeastern New Mexico for the years 1845-56. Drought was particularly severe in the years 1845-48, 1851, and 1854-56, contracting and affecting smaller regions in intervening years. The impact of this drought on natural ecosystems and human activities is difficult to gauge because of the paucity of historical documents and the confounding effects of land use changes occurring over the same period. However, it is probable that this drought played a role in the decimation of bison herds in the second half of the 19th century. Were it to occur today, this relatively small but persistent drought would have significant impacts on the Colorado Front Range metropolitan area and the agricultural regions of eastern Colorado.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, holocene, arctic, vegetation, palmer drought severity index, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, climate indicators, dendrochronology, pages, united states of america, north america, quaternary, drought, precipitation indices, great plains, palmer drought severity index reconstruction, drought, precipitation reconstruction, land records, streamflow reconstruction, igbp, ground-based observations, international geosphere-biosphere programme, polar, paleo stop date 0 ybp, paleoclimate reconstructions, atmospheric phenomena, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, biosphere, colorado, paleo start date 500 ybp, drought, eastern colorado, geographic region, tree-ring reconstructions, tree rings, pdsi, 
TITLE: Evaluation of the suitability of conservationally acceptable materials for treating wood in the polar environment to reduce wood deterioration.. ABSTRACT: In the 1998-1999 season, three test racks with wood panels were erected near the three historic huts at Hut Point, Cape Evans and Cape Royds. The racks were placed outside the historic hut boundaries but in exposed sites. The panels contained blocks of wood measuring 100mm x 150mm x 50mm in size. There were two types of wood used for each block, Pinus radiata and Baltic pine. The blocks of wood were treated with several different materials including 4 silicon based products, paint and a control. The racks were examined every two years and one set of samples was removed every three years to test the ability of the treatment to prevent non-biological damage to the wood and therefore determine which material is best suited to withstand the environmental conditions. The wood blocks were taken to the University of Minnesota for examination.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic, cape evans, field surveys, environmental assessments, lgp, human dimensions, cultural features, cape royds, polar, latitudinal gradient project, eba, earth science, ceos, environmental impacts, antarctica, field investigation, conservation, hut point, infrastructure, buildings, amd, nz, amd, geographic region, evolution and biodiversity in the antarctic, 
TITLE: ASTER Image Data of Glacier Outlines for Northern Part of the Mid-Range of the Kamchatka Peninsula, Russia. ABSTRACT: Glacier outlines for North part Mid range (Kamchatka) derived from ASTER image manually.. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, polar, aster, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, eastern europe, ipy, russia, advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer, international polar year, geographic region, europe, 
TITLE: Marine Sediment Geochemistry Data (Pore Water). ABSTRACT: This dataset consists of analyses for dissolved sulfate and ammonium done on pore water samples extracted from sediment cores. In addition, most of the sediment samples have been analyzed for organic carbon content of the dry sediment. The sediment cores were collected during research cruises conducted by, or for, the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic) at more than 35 field study locations around the world.The data are used to determine the change in concentration with depth (concentration gradient) in the core for sulfate and ammonium. From this concentration gradient, an empirical relationship is used to estimate organic carbon burial at that location. Finally, knowing the organic carbon content of the sediment at that location, an estimate of sediment accumulation rate can be made. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Point Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, trace metals, sulfate, arctic, bay d'espoir, offshore east, kerguelen plateau, none, lunenburg harbour, newfoundland and labrador argentia harbour, north america, carbon, montevideo harbor, alaska, madeira abyssal plains, offshore north, north pacific ocean, sediment composition, ocean chemistry, geochemistry, notre dame bay, nova scotia, grand banks, country harbour, interstitial water, sedimentation, new brunswick bay of chaleur, organic carbon burial, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, halifax harbour, annapolis basin, oceans, scotian margin, geographic region, continent, environmental geology, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nares abyssal plain, passamquoddy bay, sea floor, ammonium, sea of japan, marine, nutrients, laurentian slope, coastal zone, trace elements, marine geology, united states of america, sohm, pore water, gulf of st. lawrence, strait of canso, strait of georgia, marine sediments, organic carbon, vertical location, polar, miramichi estuary, sea of okhotsk, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, prince edward island north coast, great meteor east abyssal plain, total carbon, biogeochemistry, sedimentation rate, coastal processes, environment, saint john harbour, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: Canadian Offshore Environmental Database. ABSTRACT: The database is used for offshore safety analysis, design of offshore operations, design of offshore structures, environmental assessments. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, mid-latitude, arctic, water pressure, water temperature, ocean temperature, sea surface, precipitation, northern hemisphere, north america, sea ice, rain, surface air temperature, wave frequency, wave height, cloud height, atmospheric winds, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, snow, wave length, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, geographic region, western hemisphere, continent, icebergs, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, clouds, sleet, longshore currents, ocean waves, surface winds, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, salinity, ice floes, tidal height, wave spectra, cloud types, wave period, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, coastal processes, sea surface height, ice depth, thickness, atlantic ocean, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Greenland Snow Pit and Core Stratigraphy. ABSTRACT: Carl S. Benson's Greenland snow accumulation study field notebooks and analyses of snow accumulation, temperature, ice sheet facies and snow densification are available on 74 microfiche or as hard copy for on-site use by appointment. The data set includes a summary of all sampling stations, summary matrix of data collected at each station; accumulation data adjusted for Fall 1954 and Fall 1955 reference horizons; average accumulation for all stations; integrated ram hardness (snow density); descriptive stratigraphy, pit profile temperature and density; and pit and core temperature, density, ram hardness and stratigraphy. Benson's notebook is available only in hard-copy, for use on-site use by appointment only. Copies of microfiche are available. Please contact NSIDC User Services for more information or to schedule on-site use.. KEYWORD: haefeli rammsonde penetrometer, continent, snow densification, penetrometers, ice sheet facies, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, cameras, greenland, usa, nsf, north america, snow cores, thermometers, weston bimetallic thermometer, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, snow density, polar, traverses, glacier thickness, ice sheet thickness, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, snow, ice temperature, glaciers, ice sheets, snow facies, ice sheets, ice depth, thickness, snow stratigraphy, ice core records, snow accumulation, geographic region, nsf, opp, snow depth, 
TITLE: Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (Landsat 7). ABSTRACT: Abstract: This data set is a raster file containing global information for bands 1 through 8 for Landsat 7 Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (Landsat 7 ETM+). Purpose: The mission of the Landsat-7 satellite is to provide a vehicle for continuing the flow of global change information to users worldwide. The Landsat-7 satellite fulfills its mission by providing repetitive, synoptic coverage of continental surfaces and by collecting data in spectral bands that include the visible, near-infrared, shortwave, and thermal infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Landsat-7 mission objectives include: 1) Maintaining Landsat data continuity by providing data that are consistent in terms of data acquisition, geometry, spatial resolution, calibration, coverage characteristics, and spectral characteristics with previous Landsat data. 2) Generating and periodically refreshing a global archive of substantially cloud-free, Sun-lit, land-mass imagery. 3) Continuing to make remote sensing satellite data available to domestic and international users and expanding the use of such data for global change research in both the Government and private commercial sectors. 4) Promoting interdisciplinary research via synergism with other EOS observations, specifically, orbiting in tandem with the EOS Terra satellite for near coincident observations. Supplemental_Information: The Landsat-7 system is another step in the development and application of remotely sensed satellite data for use in managing the Earth's land resources. As with earlier Landsat systems, the Landsat-7 platform, along with its enhanced thematic mapping sensor, provides for new capabilities in the remote sensing of Earth's land surface. Landsat-7 data are collected from a nominal altitude of 705 kilometers in a near-polar, near-circular, Sun-synchronous orbit at an inclination of 98.2 degrees, imaging the same 183-km swath of Earth's surface every 16 days. Some of the browse images you encounter may appear black or empty. These are engineering data known as Full Aperture Calibrator (FAC) data. The FAC is a white painted panel that is deployed in front of the ETM+ aperture and diffusely reflects solar radiation into the full aperture of the instrument. The FAC scenes are typically gathered on a monthly basis and constitute roughly 5 to 7 scenes for each FAC collected. Eventually these engineering data will be gleaned out of the database. Depending on the time of year, the solar azimuth angle with respect to the velocity vector of the ETM+ sensor, varies from 23 degrees to 37 degrees. This is the only area where FAC data will be collected. Further, in-depth information can be found at the following sites: "http:  landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov " and "http:  landsat.usgs.gov " Landsat-7 Data Document http:  eros.usgs.gov products satellite landsat7.html Data Set Credit: The Landsat Program, as defined by Congress in 1992 and amended by Presidential Decision Directive NSTC-3 in May 1994, is managed cooperatively by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the USGS. Responsibility for construction of the spacecraft and instrument lies with NASA. The Landsat Program is part of NASA's Earth Observing System global change initiative administered by NASA's Earth Science Enterprise. Data processing, archiving, and distribution are performed by the USGS. The primary ground station, the data handling facility and archive are located at the USGS EROS Center in Sioux Falls, SD. NASA managed flight operations from the control center at the Goddard Space Flight Center until October 1, 2000, at which time responsibility for flight operations transferred to the USGS. The ground system is able to distribute ETM+ data within 24 hours of its reception at the EROS Center.. KEYWORD: landsat-7, continent, visible imagery, surface radiative properties, arctic, infrared imagery, echo, global, greenland, north america, enhanced thematic mapper plus, south america, spectral, engineering, europe, vertical location, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, etm+, africa, reflectance, ultraviolet sensor temperature, australia, new zealand, topography, asia, earth science, ceos, land use, land cover, land surface, landscape patterns, australia, antarctica, sensor characteristics, landforms, visible wavelengths, brightness temperature, amd, geographic region, land use classes, landscape, eros, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: SYNOP data from BJRNYA, JAN MAYEN and HOPEN. ABSTRACT: Quality controlled synoptic meteorological measurements performed by the Norwegian Meteorological Institute. Data are extracted from the public available database http:  eklima.met.no .. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, sea level pressure, arctic, air temperature, clouds, arctic, no, precipitation, atmospheric, temperature, humidity, wind_speed, barents sea, surface winds, polar, surface pressure, synop, surface air temperature, observation, earth science, pressure, greenland sea, wind_from_direction, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric pressure, atmospheric winds, air_temperature, ipy, cloud amount, frequency, ocean, air_pressure_at_sea_level, geographic region, relative_humidity, wind, 
TITLE: LAKE FRYXELL METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Water Vapor Density. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology fryxell.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. These files contain data for the Lake Fryxell meteorology station (in Taylor Valley). The above data set includes water vapor density measurements. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp". -. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, humidity, taylor valley, lake fryxell, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, earth science, ceos, antarctica, lter mcm, atmospheric water vapor, water vapor density, water vapor, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Binned 4 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html Each Aqua MODIS Level-3 binned (4 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a season, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells have a resolution of 4.6x4.6km. Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. Aqua MODIS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 488 nm [file x02 = nLw_488_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 531 nm [file x03 = nLw_531_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 551 nm [file x04 = nLw_551_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 667 nm [file x05 = nLw_667_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm [file x06 = angstrom_531_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 748 and 869 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 869nm [file x10 = tau_869_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT The MODIS Aqua Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Hourly Values of Geomagnetic Field Components at Russian Ice Stations in the Arctic Region. ABSTRACT: The data set is presented in the form of the files containing the data for year of separate Soviet scientific drifting ice stations.. KEYWORD: solid earth, polar, ipy, geomagnetism, magnetic intensity, ipy field stations, arctic, earth science, international polar year, polar field stations and ipy history: culture, heritage, governance (1882-present)', geographic region, 
TITLE: NOAA CMDL World Climate Data, Global Historical Climatology Network for Alaska. ABSTRACT: This data set contains mean monthly temperatures and total monthly precipitation for stations in Alaska from the mid-1800s to 1990. The values are a subset of the Global Historical Climatology Network (GHCN), archived at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, nsidc, continent, precipitation amount, atmospheric temperature, arctic, global, field surveys, air temperature, usa, noaa, precipitation, usa, nsf, united states of america, north america, alaska, temperature, thermometers, ground stations, ground-based observations, meteorological stations, polar, historical climatology, earth science, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, arcss014, rain gauges, world climate data, climatology, geographic region, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratories Bering and Chukchi Sea Ice Drift. ABSTRACT: Four ARGOS ice buoys were deployed in March 1981 (monitored 3 6 to 3 14), and six buoys in January 1982 (maximum period monitored: 1 26 to 6 30) to measure ice movement within the pack ice in the northeastern Bering Sea and southern Chukchi Sea. Plots of buoy floe trajectories are published in Macklin (1984) and Reynolds (1984). These data were collected as part of Bering Air-Sea-Ice Study (BASICS) experiments studying "physical oceanographic, meteorological and other physical quantities which determine the structure, position and rate-of-advance of the marginal ice zone of the seasonal Bering Sea ice pack and the feedback of ice conditions to the surrounding environment" (Macklin 1984). In 1985, 15 ARGOS buoys were deployed in the Bering Sea as part of the Arctic Polynya Experiment (APEX). Monitoring period was approximately February to June. From 1987 to 1989 Bering Sea buoy data are also archived (1987: 11 buoys, pressure, temperature, and position, deployments in March, September, November; 1988: three buoys, pressure, temperature, position, deployments in October; 1989 deployment history unknown at present). Data are in NOAA National Oceanographic Data Center format file type 156 - Langrangian Current Measurements II, 3 30 83 version. Data available on 8 mm tape, or via ftp. Contact NSIDC User Services for details.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, ice movement, sea level pressure, atmospheric temperature, arctic, air temperature, usa, noaa, buoys, atmospheric pressure measurements, air sea ice interaction, transmitter-equipped drifting buoys, sea ice, northeastern bering sea, temperature, southern chukchi sea, sea ice motion, north pacific ocean, bering sea, drifting buoys, surface air temperature, pacific ocean, pack ice, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, pressure, atmospheric pressure, polynya formation, ocean, ice position, oceans, chukchi sea, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Seasonal Ocean Sea Surface Temperature Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean sea surface temperature (SST) data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS SST products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). The generation of SST products from the MODIS sensors is performed using the Multi-Sensor Level-1 to Level-2 software (MSl12), based on algorithms and logic originally developed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmosphere Science (RSMAS) at the University of Miami. Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS modis_sst  The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is a 16-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. Each SMI product contains one geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Three SMI products are generated for each standard SST binning period: NSST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (nighttime) SST = Sea Surface Temperature - 11 micron (daytime) SST4 = Sea Surface Temperature - 4 micron (nighttime only) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, ocean temperature, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, sea surface temperature, modis, polar, amd, us, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Induction Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station, Antarctica, Year 2004. ABSTRACT: The pulsation magnetometer is used to measure D and H components of geomagnetic induction variations. It is a cooperation project with Newcastle University, Australia. The data is shared by boths sides. The data is originally recorded on hard disk and retrieved on CDR disks.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, magnetometers, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, sun-earth interactions, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: Mixed Layer Experiment 1989 (MLML89)-Water Velocity Data. ABSTRACT: The Marine Light - Mixed Layer Experiment took place in the sub-Arctic North Atlantic ocean, approximately 275 miles south of Reykjavik, Iceland. Data is available from a buoy fielded from April 13-June 10, 1989. The experiment was funded by the Office Of Naval Research. Water Velocities Data from this experiment include: 1426 records Sample Rate: 3600 Seconds (60 minutes) Depth Bins: 7 bins, at 10, 30, 50, 90, 110, 150, 250 m Variables: velocity east and north are provided, in cm s. Instruments: Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler, Multi-Variable Moored System, and Brancker Temperature recorder See: "http:  uop.whoi.edu uopdata mlml mlml89 mlml89vel.html". KEYWORD: ocean currents, marine light-mixed layer experiment 89, north atlantic ocean, earth science, water temperature, ocean mixed layer, ocean temperature, wave speed, direction, open-source project for a network data access protocol, usa, nasa, earth science information partners program, water velocity data sensors, ocean, buoy position, dods, oceans, esip, mlml89, atlantic ocean, opendap, ocean waves, ocean circulation, distributed oceanographic data system, 
TITLE: Survey Locator. ABSTRACT: Shows the boundaries of hydrographic surveys conducted by the Canadian Hydrographic Service, by different categories such as lead line, spot soundings, sweep, mulitbeam, standard and non-standard linear, and total bottom coverage.Aids in the discovery of surveys based on different parameters.. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, spot sounding surveys, mid-latitude, total bottom coverage, arctic, united states of america, northern hemisphere, multibeam surveys, north america, geobrowser, geoportal, leadline surveys, polar, great lakes, pacific ocean, earth science, non standard linear surveys, ceos, single beam surveys, sweep surveys, bathymetry, seafloor topography, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, linear surveys, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Induction magnetometer data, Arrival heights, Scott Base, Antarctica. ABSTRACT: A magnetometer and data recording system was installed and began recording hydromagnetic and ion cyclotron waves (geomagnetic pulsations) propagating into the high latitude cusp and polar cap regions of the earth's magnetic field in January 1989 at Arrival Heights, Ross Island, Antarctica. The data represent two horizontal components of the Earth magnetic field variations dB dt. The magnetometer continuously records data throughout the year and operates in conjunction with the Australian network of similar magnetometers at Casey, Davis, Mawson and Macquarie Island stations. The magnetometer consists of two induction coil sensors aligned along magnetic North-South and East-West and buried some distance from the Arrival Heights Laboratory of Scott Base. The magnetometer was calibrated and maintained annually with necessary upgrades and modification. In January 2007, the magnetometer sensors and recording equipment was relocated to a new hut. Besides visible light, the sun radiates a super-sonic stream of charged particles (solar wind made up of protons and electrons). The solar winds, embedded in an interplanetary magnetic field, interact with the earths magnetic field, shaping it into a cavity called the magnetosphere. The magnetosphere is shaped in such a way that the large interface area between the solar wind and the earths environment is focussed along the field lines onto a relatively small region of the high latitude atmosphere, over the polar zones. Waves (energetic particles and magnetic field disturbances) are generated through these interactions and are propagated through the ionosphere to the ground along magnetic field lines where they are recorded as pulsations of the geomagnetic field measured on the ground by magnetometers. Analysis of the frequency and nature of these measured ultra low frequency space plasma waves can indicated the source region. Besides being a fundamental study of plasma physics research, these effects also are frequently referred to as Space Weather events and may adversely affect operation of both satellite-based and ground communication, surveillance and navigation systems.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetic field, magnetometers, ionosphere, magnetosphere dynamics, earth science, ceos, plasma waves, antarctica, geomagnetic induction, geomagnetism, sun-earth interactions, amd, nz, magnetic fields, magnetic currents, amd, geographic region, arrival heights, 
TITLE: Predictive Model of Migratory Shorebird Resting Sites: Great Knot, Red Knot and Bar-tailed Godwit in Coastal Sea of Okhotsk, Russian Far East. ABSTRACT: So far, the migration patterns of shorebirds in the Sea Of Okhotsk region, Russian Far East, have only been sketchily documented by Western sources. This is mostly due to the lack of international effort and due to the relative short amount of time that Russia has been open to Westerners (e.g. Huettmann 2003, unpublished). Most of our knowledge stems from only a few study sites in this large ecosystem. The need arose for naturalists, conservationists, researchers, and other interested parties to develop accurate but predictive models of migration resting sites and subsequently inferred migration routes between Australasia, far eastern Russia and the Arctic instead of using the broadly localized knowledge of years past. Here a first predictive model is presented for Great Knot (Calidris tenuirostris), Red Knot (C. canutus) and Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica) resting sites during fall and spring migration. This model is based on Generalized Linear Models (GLM) in S-PLUS and uses the best known information of shorebird resting sites from a Literature Review on this subject (Huettmann 2003). Habitat information was taken from GIS layers, software, digital and hardcopy maps. From the species models using compiled locations with known shorebird migration, it appears that the studied bird species in prefer tidal saltwater locations with organic matter and freshwater inflow. The models show spatial differences between spring and fall migration, which indicates different migration strategies. Further and continous ground-truthing is highly suggested. This model provides an additional view on shorebird migration, and it represents the first generation of predictive modeling for shorebirds in this large region. It is hoped that further fine-tuning and improvement of models and data will increase the accuracy of these models and of our knowledge on shorebird migration. This GIS dataset is based on a basic model used to determine possible resting sites in the Okhotsk region for three species of shorebirds: Great Knot (Calidris tenuirostris), Red Knot (Calidris canutus), and Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica). It uses accounts of previous resting locations reported from scientific expeditions and reports, compiled in a Literature Reviewand as digital GIS data (Huettmann 2003). By obtaining data on the reported confirmed locations of these shorebirds during spring and autumn migrations and then predicting them to locations with known habitat configurations, the relative probability of occurrence for species at these other resting sites can be determined. Further research can then be done at identified candidate locations allowing to infer on migration strategies, flyways and for carrying out an effective conservation management of habitats and species.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, biological classification, red knot, sandpipers, magadan, arctic, birds, gis (geographic information system), kamchatka, kurile islands, russian far east, limos lapponica, north pacific ocean, sakhalin island, polar, sea of okhotsk, pacific ocean, earth science, shorebird resting sites, ceos, calidris canutus, animals, vertebrates, ocean, predictive modeling, model data, fall and spring migration, great knot, geographic region, fall migration, calidris tenuirostris, bar-tailed godwit, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: SeaWiFS Level 3 Global Binned 9 KM Yearly Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. SeaWiFS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html Each SeaWiFS Level-3 binned (9 km) data product consists of the accumulated data for all Level-2 products, for the specified instrument and resolution, corresponding to a period of one day, 8 days, a calendar month, a calendar year, or the cumulative mission. Each Level-3 binned data product is stored in one or more HDF files. The data are stored in a representation of a global, equal-area grid whose grid cells, or "bins," have a resolution of 9.2x9.2km (approximately 81 km2). Each given time binning period (Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative) has a separate file for each product. These files include a main file containing all product-level metadata, and data for each bin filled for that product and time period. In addition, each product includes subordinate files, each of which contains data of one binned geophysical parameter for all bins. Subordinate files must be read in conjunction with the associated main file. The parameters are the normalized water-leaving radiances (radiance data corrected for atmospheric light scattering and sun angles differing from nadir), and geophysical parameters derived from the radiance data. SeaWiFS ocean color binned products consist of: -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 412 nm [file x00 = nLw_412_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 443 nm [file x01 = nLw_443_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 490 nm [file x02 = nLw_490_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 510 nm [file x03 = nLw_510_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 555 nm [file x04 = nLw_555_sum] -Normalized water-leaving radiance at 670 nm [file x05 = nLw_670_sum] -Angstrom coefficient, 510-865 nm [file x06 = angstrom_510_sum] -Chlorophyll-a concentration [file x07 = chlor_a_sum] -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm [file x08 = K_490_sum] -Epsilon of aerosol correction at 765 and 865 nm [file x09 = eps_78_sum] -Aerosol optical thickness at 865 nm [file x10 = tau_865_sum] More detailed information on the Level-3 binned data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_Binned_Data_Products.pdf The SeaWiFS Level 3 Binned data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov SeaWiFS Binned . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, aerosol radiance, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: Program for Arctic Regional Climate Assessment (PARCA) Data Sets. ABSTRACT: PARCA began in 1993 with the primary goal of measuring and understanding the mass balance of the Greenland Ice Sheet. Approximately 25 investigations used in situ measurements and satellite and aircraft remote sensing to study this issue. Measurements include surface elevation and ice thickness change rates from aircraft laser altimetry, shallow to intermediate ice cores (for average accumulation rates and their temporal and spatial variability), velocity around the ice-sheet perimeter at an elevation of about 2000 meters, local ice thickening thinning rates, and climatological observations from automatic weather stations. Satellite data used include elevation change from radar altimetry; mapping of snow facies and zones of summer melt from passive and active microwave; ice velocities from interferometric synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and from repeat high-resolution visible and SAR imagery; mapping surface and 10-m temperatures, accumulation rates, and surface albedo from microwave and AVHRR data. Data are available through investigator Web sites. Questions about these data should be directed to the individual technical contacts responsible for each data set. The National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) provides summaries and links to these data as a service to our users.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, terrain elevation, atmospheric temperature, return power, surface radiative properties, arctic, sigma naught, usa, noaa, ablation zones, accumulation zones, surface roughness, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, topographic effects, snow cover, north america, net radiation, humidity, spectral, engineering, ice growth, melt, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow density, surface air temperature, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, topography, solar radiation, program in arctic regional climate assessment, atmospheric water vapor, glaciers, ice sheets, radar imagery, landforms, atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, water vapor, topographical relief, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, snow depth, continent, snow melt, shortwave radiation, radar backscatter, air temperature, eosdis, greenland ice sheet, greenland, earth science information partners program, ice velocity, snow, ice, surface winds, polar, reflectance, parca, earth science, cryosphere, glacier elevation, ice sheet elevation, ceos, land surface, usa, nasa, snow, ice temperature, atmospheric pressure, radar, ice sheets, ice depth, thickness, esip, snow water equivalent, 
TITLE: Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) McMurdo Dry Valleys Meteorological Station Measurements. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER meteordata.html"] Local meteorology drives and shapes all ecological systems. One of the first objectives of the McMurdo LTER was to establish a meteorological network that would gather representative weather data year-round from the dry valleys. The McMurdo LTER Automatic Weather Network (LAWN) currently consists of 13 stations Stations are now operational at Explorer's Cove, in Beacon Valley and on the shores of Lakes Fryxell, Hoare, Bonney, Brownworth, Vanda, and Vida and on the Commonwealth, Howard, and Taylor glaciers. Stations routinely sample sensors every 30 seconds and send summary statistics (averages, maximums, etc.) to solid-state storage modules every 15 minutes. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE (DAILY and MONTHLY) air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, precipitation amount, barometric pressure, atmospheric temperature, lter, arctic, solar flux, ice temperature, precipitation, atmospheric pressure measurements, net radiation, humidity, soil temperature, terrestrial hydrosphere, radiometers, par, surface pressure, relative humidity, meteorology, surface air temperature, wind speed, wind direction, solar radiation, temperature probes, anemometers, biosphere, antarctica, atmospheric water vapor, atmospheric winds, longwave radiation, water vapor, snow, automatic remote weather station, frozen ground, amd, humidity sensors, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, lawn, snow depth, wind, continent, snow height, vegetation, air temperature, pyranometers, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, soil temperature probe, temperature, licor quantum sensor, soils, snow, ice, surface winds, uvb, arws, polar, uva, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, eddy correlation, ceos, land surface, photosynthetically active radiation, atmospheric pressure, ultraviolet radiation, mcmurdo dry valleys, 
TITLE: Scharffenbergbotnen, stake positions (2004 & 2007). ABSTRACT: Precise GPS Positions of many stakes within the Scharffenbergbotnen (Heimefrontfjella) valley. From the finnarp 2003 2004 season and the 2006 2007 season. We also have stake positions from earlier field work.. KEYWORD: continent, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, amd, geographic region, antarctica, glacier motion, ice sheet motion, amd, fi, glaciers, ice sheets, 
TITLE: ANWR and Alaska Peninsula Gravity Data. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The gravity station data (1252 records) were compiled by the U.S. Geological Survey and the State of Alaska Division of Geological & Geophysical Surveys. This data base was received in August, 1984. Principal gravity parameters include Free-air Anomalies and Simple Bouguer Anomalies (no terrain correction applied) for the Alaska Peninsula. The observed gravity values are referenced to the International Gravity Standardization Net 1971 (IGSN 71). The gravity anomaly computation uses the Geodetic Reference System 1967 (GRS 67) theoretical gravity formula. The data are randomly distributed within the boundaries of northeast Alaska including the Arctic National Wildlife Range (ANWR) and the Alaska Peninsula. Note that the original USGS Open File Report by D. F. Barnes mentions the use of the 1931 International Ellipsoid for gravity reduction but this is believed to have subsequently been changed to the GRS 67 system. PURPOSE: To provide easy access to global and regional gravity data and related models for scientific studies. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: Ground Condition SPATIAL DATA ORGANIZATION INFORMATION Direct Spatial Reference: Raster SDTS Point and Vector Object Type: Point Point and Vector Object Count: 1252. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, control surveys, arctic, satellite orbits, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, usa, noaa, earth science information partners program, united states of america, north america, alaska, land gravity, observed gravity, alaska peninsula, reference systems, polar, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, anwr, gravitational field, world data center for solid earth geophysics, boulder, earth science, ceos, geodetics, gravity, gravity, arctic national wildlife refuge, esip, geographic region, wdc, seg, boulder, 
TITLE: The CTD dataset of a coastal ecosystem water profile in Kongsfjorden, Arctic (2007). ABSTRACT: The field investigation was carried out in Kongsfjorden. Profiles of water temperature, salinity, chlorophyll a concentrations, and light within the upper 200 m water column at 5 stations (to near the seabed at stations 4 and 5) along a transect were investigated using a SBE 19-plus CTD. Water samples were collected with the depths of 0, 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 75, 100, 150 and 200 m, respectively for the purpose of the analysis of nutrients, POC, chlorophyll a, pigments, the structure and biodiversity of microbial community (bacteria and protists).. KEYWORD: arctic, north atlantic ocean, water temperature, ocean temperature, field surveys, light transmission, airborne chromatograph for atmospheric trace species, cammice, conductivity, temperature, depth, ctd, water quality, water chemistry, terrestrial hydrosphere, polar, ocean chemistry, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, chlorophyll, ocean, oceans, salinity, density, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, acats, geographic region, charge and mass ion composition experiment, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Snow Cover Daily L3 Global 500m Grid (MOD10A1) contains snow cover and quality assurance (QA) data in HDF-EOS format along with corresponding metadata. Data files after 14 September 2003 include a snow albedo array with a beta status. MOD10A1 consists of 1200 km by 1200 km tiles of 500 m resolution data gridded in a sinusoidal map projection. MODIS Terra V004 data extend from 24 February 2000 to present. MODIS snow cover data are based on a snow mapping algorithm that employs a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) and other criteria tests. Data are available via FTP, CD-ROM, DLT, or DVD. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: nsidc, terra, arctic, echo, lake ice, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, global land, snow cover, spectroradiometers, sinusoidal grid, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, gridded, antarctic, albedo, modis, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, snow on ice, global change, snow, climatology, esip, geographic region, integerized sinusoidal grid, 
TITLE: ERS-1 and ERS-2 SAR Data over Canada. ABSTRACT: The European Space Agency ERS-1 satellite was launched on July 17, 1991 with a projected lifespan of two to three years. CCRS began reception of its successor, ERS-2, on July 9, 1995 and is still receiving. Canada is a full participant in the ERS-1 program and is part of the ESA network of receiving and processing stations. This data set contains SAR high-resolution imagery, acquired by the ERS-1 Active Microwave Instrument (AMI). The scenes, for both ERS-1 and ERS-2, are 100 km in width, and are imaged by a 10 m long x 1 m wide antenna aligned parallel with the satellite orbit. The radar operates at a frequency of 5.3 GHz (C-Band), VV polarisation, and has a mid-swath incidence angle of 23 deg. in normal operation. However, the satellite has a 'roll tilt' capability which makes it possible to operate at 35 deg. incidence angle on an experimental basis. Power considerations limit operating times to a maximum of 12 minutes per orbit. The data rate of 105 Mbit s is too high to allow on-board storage, and so images are only acquired within the reception zones of the ground stations. Raw SAR data is processed in the SAR Data Processing Facility (SARDPF) located at the Gatineau ground receiving station. Standard products available are: Georeferenced Fine-Resolution (SGF), Systematically Geocoded (SSG), Precision Geocoded (SPG) with or without DTM, and Georeferenced Coarse-Resolution (SGC). Non standard products are Raw Data, Single Look Complex (SLC), Single Look Detected (SLD), and Multi Look Detected (MLD). Products are available on CCT (1600 bpi or 6250 bpi), Exabyte, transparency (B W) 185 mm, and transparency and prints. Access is on request, with a charge for the data. Data procurement selection criteria is by Lat Long coordinates or NTS Map Sheet. ERS-1 mosaics of Vancouver Island and the British Columbia mainland are available for downloading through GeoGratis free of charge and are subject to copyright restrictions and disclaimer. Please consult the section 'Earth Observation Imagery' at http:  geogratis.cgdi.gc.ca for additional information.This data is used primarily for natural resources management and provides excellent educational material. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, terrain elevation, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, british columbia, none, sea surface, oil spill, northern hemisphere, significant wave height, snow cover, north america, ontario, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, eddies, terrestrial hydrosphere, satellites, atmospheric phenomena, topography, nova scotia, runoff, vegetation cover, swells, biosphere, radar imagery, radio detection and ranging, surface water, landforms, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, new brunswick, oceans, microwave imagery, geographic region, ami, western hemisphere, contaminants, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, c-band, vegetation, nunavut, northwest territories, ers-1, ers-2, wetlands, saskatchewan, lakes, snow, ice, ocean waves, yukon territory, microwave, surface winds, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, fronts, active microwave instrument, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, environmental impacts, land surface, quebec, alberta, radar, prince edward island, rivers, streams, atlantic ocean, storms, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Standard CODAR Real-Time Archive Data. ABSTRACT: CODAR is used to measure the surface currents of the coastal ocean. A transmitter sends out a radio frequency that bounces off the ocean surface and back to areceiver antenna. Using this information and the principles of the Doppler shift, CODAR is able to calculate the speed and direction of the surface current. These calculations are made at about every half mile across the surface and extend as far as about twenty miles offshore. CODAR Archived Data for Standard and Long-range CODAR System is available online for 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003.. KEYWORD: continent, coastal processes, tidal height, north america, tidal components, earth science, new jersey, oceans, usa, nasa, tides, tidal currents, 
TITLE: UV in Southern Polar regions. ABSTRACT: Study of the solar UV spectral irradiance in southern polar regions, ground-based measurements were carried out in 2 sites. 1 - Ushuaia (Tierra del Fuego, Argentina) 2 - Belgrano II (Antarctica). KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, (pacs) global change, arctic, ushuaia, (pacs) solar radiation, (pacs) polar regions, argentina, amd, it, solar activity, south america, belgrano ii, polar, (pacs) antarctica, earth science, ceos, solar radiation, solar irradiance, antarctica, ultraviolet radiation, sun-earth interactions, spectrophotometers, amd, geographic region, atmospheric radiation, tierra del fuego, 
TITLE: Dissolved Mn in the Southern Ocean. ABSTRACT: Sampling and Analytical Methodology: Samples were taken using 24 internally Teflon-coated PVC 12 litre GO-FLO Samplers (General Oceanics Inc.) mounted on an all-titanium frame (De Baar et al., 2008). This frame was connected to a 17.7 mm diameter Kevlar hydrowire with seven independent internal signal conductor cables (Cousin Trestec S.A.) and controlled from onboard. Each GO-FLO sampler had a special ultraclean all-teflon PTFE valve (Cole Parmer; PN A-06392-31) installed. Samples for trace metal analysis were collected from the GO-FLO bottles in a class 100 clean room environment. The water was filtered over a 0.2 m filter cartridge (Sartrobran-300, Sartorius) under pressure (1.5 atm) of (in-line prefiltered) nitrogen gas exerted via a special connector instead of the regular air bleeding valve at the top of each GO-FLO sampler. Sub-samples for Mn were taken in cleaned LDPE sample bottles (125 mL) from each GO-FLO bottle. All sample bottles were rinsed five times with the sample seawater. Analyses of dissolved Manganese (Mn) were performed on shipboard with the method developed by Doi et al. (2004) with some slight modifications in the preparation and brands of the chemicals used. Furthermore, samples were buffered in-line with an ammonium borate sample buffer (see text below). Samples were acidified with 12 M ultraclean HCl (Baseline Hydrochloric Acid, Seastar Chemicals Inc.) to a pH of 1.8 and stored inside double plastic bags in plastic crates. At the home institute, in a flow injection system, the samples were buffered in-line to a pH of 8.5  0.2 with ammonium borate sample buffer. This buffer was produced by dissolving 30.9 grams of boric acid (Suprapure, Merck) in 1 L MQ water and adjusting the pH to 9.4 with ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure, Merck). Dissolved Mn in the buffered sample was preconcentrated for 200 seconds on a Toyopearl AFChelate 650M (TesoHaas, Germany) column. Hereafter the column was rinsed for 60 seconds with MQ water to remove interfering salts. The Mn was subsequently eluted from the column for 200 seconds with a solution of 0.1M three times quartz distilled formic acid (reagent grade, Merck) containing 0.1 M hydrogen peroxide (Suprapure, Merck) and 12 mM ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure, Merck). The pH of this carrier solution was adjusted to 2.9  0.05. The eluate with the dissolved Mn passed a second column of immobilized 8-hydroxyquinoline (Landing et al., 1986) to remove interfering iron ions in the carrier solution (Doi et al., 2004). Hereafter the carrier mixed subsequently with 0.7 M ammonium hydroxide (Suprapure Merck) and a luminol solution. The latter luminol solution was made by diluting 600 l luminol stock solution and 10 l TETA (triethylenetetramine, Merck) in 1 L MQ. The luminol stock solution was made by diluting 270 mg luminol (3-aminophtalhydrazide, Aldrich) and 500 mg potassium carbonate in 15 ml MQ. The resulting mixture of carrier solution, ammonium hydroxide and luminol solution had a pH of 10.2  0.05 and entered a 3 meter length mixing coil placed in a water bath of 25C. Hereafter the chemiluminescence was detected with a Hamamatsu HC135 Photon counter. Concentrations of dissolved Mn were calculated in nanomolL-1 (nM) from the photon emission peak height (see below). The system was calibrated using standard additions from a 5000 nM Mn stock solution (Fluka) to filtered acidified seawater of low Mn concentration that was collected in Antarctic Ocean. A five-points calibration line (0, 0.15, 0.36, 0.73 and 1.46 nM standard additions) and blank determination were made daily. The three lowest points (0, 0.15 and 0.36 nM) of the calibration line were measured in triplicate and the two highest points (0.73 and 1.46 nM) in duplicate to add more weight to the lower part of the calibration line. The blank was determined by measuring column-cleaned seawater. Latter was obtained by passing seawater over a Toyopearl AFChelate 650M and an 8-hydroxyquinoline column which retained the dissolved Mn. The average blank value was 20 pM. The limit of detection defined as three times the standard deviation of the blank was < 0.01 nM. The flow injection system was rinsed every day with a 0.5 M HCl solution. Data Processing: The system was calibrated using standard additions from a 5000 nM Mn stock solution (Fluka) to filtered acidified seawater of low Mn concentration that was collected in Antarctic Ocean. A five-points calibration line (0, 0.15, 0.36, 0.73 and 1.46 nM standard additions) and blank determination were made daily. The three lowest points (0, 0.15 and 0.36 nM) of the calibration line were measured in triplicate and the two highest points (0.73 and 1.46 nM) in duplicate to add more weight to the lower part of the calibration line. The blank was determined by measuring column-cleaned seawater. Latter was obtained by passing seawater over a Toyopearl AFChelate 650M and an 8-hydroxyquinoline column which retained the dissolved Mn. The average blank value was 20 pM. The limit of detection defined as three times the standard deviation of the blank was < 0.01 nM. The flow injection system was rinsed every day with a 0.5 M HCl solution. A standard was measured in triplicate every day. This standard was a sub-sample of a 25 L volume of filtered seawater that was taken at the beginning of the cruise. This standard was analysed 40 times on different days and the relative standard deviation of the replicate analysis in triplicate was 3.2%. The relative standard deviation on the separate days was on average 1.3 %. The average concentration of Mn of this standard was 0.44 nM and the deviation from this average for a given measuring day was used as a correction factor. To verify whether this correction was decreasing the inter-daily variability in the dataset, every day a sample which was collected and measured the previous measuring day, was analysed once again. The deviation between the concentrations measured on the different days decreased from 3.5% to 2.5%, indicating the data correction procedure is beneficial. As an independent comparison, the certification samples collected on the SAFe cruise (Johnson et al., 2007) were analysed for Mn. As an independent comparison, the certification samples collected on the American SAFe cruise (Johnson et al., 2007) were analysed in triplicate for Mn. The resulting concentrations of Mn for both SAFe Surface (S) and SAFe deep (D2) from 1000 m, agreed very nicely the community consensus value that is starting to emerge on the absolute concentrations of Mn in the SAFe samples. The dataset was scanned for obvious outliers and these have been quality flagged with the number 4. Some samples gave anomalous nutrient results for the intended depth and were assumed to have been closed at the wrong depth and quality flagged with the number 8. All other values are assumed to be correct and flagged with the number 0.. KEYWORD: amd, nl, geotraces, drake passage, trace elements, international polar year, prime meridian, weddell sea, south atlantic ocean, polar, ocean chemistry, southern ocean, earth science, ceos, dissolved manganese, r, v polarstern, flow injection analysis, biogeochemical cycles of trace elements, isotopes in the arctic and s. oceans, ipy, ocean, ipy-nl, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, fia, 
TITLE: Measuring movement of floes with GPS grid from Aug.10 to Sep.5 of 2003 by the 2nd Chinese Arctic Research Expedition. ABSTRACT: This data set is records of 5 floes movement with GPS grid measurement by by the 2nd Chinese Arctic Research Expedition.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, polar, arctic, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, field surveys, gps, global positioning system, ocean, sea ice, arctic, cn, floes movement, geographic region, 
TITLE: LANDSAT MSS System Corrected, absolute and statistical correction (SCAS) Product. ABSTRACT: Most of the ESA archive has been acquired and processed at receiving stations in Fucino (Italy), Kiruna (Sweden) and Maspalomas (Gran Canaria, Spain). However, the archive contains also a substantial number of data acquired and processed by receiving stations elsewhere (e.g. the US, Brasil, Canada, ect.). The system corrected data contains MSS data radiometrically and geometrically corrected relative to the four MSS spectral bands covering on full WRS scene. Radiometric and geometric corrections are applied in sequence and the quality standards are expressed by combined radiometric and geometric corrected data quality standards. RADIOMETRIC CORRECTIONS Each pixel's radiometric value is processed through a look-up table, generated with one of the following methods: * Relative radiometric corrections method (statistical): this method performs the statistical equalisation for the different detectors of the same band. * Absolute in flight radiometric calibration: this method utilizes the on-board calibration wedge data to determine the absolute radiometric calibration gains and offsets. * Relative and absolute radiometric calibration method: this process is a combination of the above methods. GEOMETRIC CORRECTIONS The MSS geometric corrections are based on the generation of three geometric correction tables which group the different geometric error sources and model: * the along scan correction table (panoramic distorsion, Earthcurvature, satellite altitude and attitude, etc.) * scan skew offset table * between line distance table whichaccounts for the nadir velocity,variation of the S C pitch angle, S C altitude. Landsat full scene of imagery data correspond to an effective ground coverage area of approximately 185 km wide by 185 km in along-track direction for Landsat 1, 2, 3 and 185 x 170 for Landsat 4 and 5. A standard full scene is nominally centred on the intersection between a path and row (the actual image centre can vary by up to 20 km). For a floating full scene the placement along the path is chosen by the customer. The centre point of the floating full scene is defined by the path number and the required latitude. A full image is composed of 6920 pixels x 5760 lines and each band requires 40 Mbytes of storage space. To order data please see http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html. KEYWORD: ice extent, solid earth, mid-latitude, arctic, habitat conversion, fragmentation, mss, global terrestrial observing system, desertification, spectral, engineering, human dimensions, terrestrial hydrosphere, thermal infrared, gtos, infrared wavelengths, africa, topography, vegetation cover, biosphere, glaciers, ice sheets, deforestation, surface water, landforms, visible wavelengths, erosion, landsat-1, gosic, geographic region, regional deforestation, regional desertification, glaciers, continent, visible imagery, landsat-3, landsat-2, landsat-5, reforestation, landsat-4, vegetation, equatorial, wetlands, esa, esrin, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, erosion, sedimentation, asia, earth science, volcanoes, ceos, land surface, regional reforestation, rivers, streams, multispectral scanner, landsat, gosic, gtos, 
TITLE: Paleoglaciology of Alaska. ABSTRACT: The Paleoglaciology of Alaska project involves scientists to estimate past climate parameters from glacial-geologic records. This project combines field research and cosmogenic-surface-exposure dating with GIS analysis of Alaskan glaciers that existed during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). -Former glacier extents, coupled with high-resolution Digital Elevation Models (DEM's), permit us to quantify past Equilibrium Line Altitudes (paleo-ELA's). -For each glacier, this parameter records a balance between winter precipitation and summer temperature. -Dense spatial arrays of hundreds of paleoELA's within 8 broad mountainous regions clarify: microclimatic vs. regional climatic controls on glacier growth; synoptic views of atmospheric moisture circulation; and spatially varying LGM aridity for comparison with numerical climate simulations. [Summary provided by the University of Colorado.]. KEYWORD: solid earth, glaciers, continent, geomorphology, digital elevation model, cenozoic, arctic, paleoclimate, dem, gis, spatial analysis, united states of america, north america, paleo stop date, alaska, quaternary, last glacial maxium, aerial photographs, glacial landforms, processes, land records, terrestrial hydrosphere, equilibrium line altitudes, ground-based observations, polar, maps, glacier topography, ice sheet topography, earth science, cryosphere, land surface, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, glaciers, ice sheets, glaciation, paleo start date, geographic region, 
TITLE: Landsat 7 Level 1G, Ortho, Colour and Mosaic Image Products. ABSTRACT: Photosat, formerly RGI, was appointed by Natural Resources Canada, Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS)in 2001 a distributor of Landsat 7 image products, produced by PhotoSat under sublicense from CCRS. Landsat 7 images received by CCRS cover all of Canada, Eastern Alaska and most of the Continental USA. Landsat 7 images received by USGS cover the world. PhotoSat provides Geolocated (level 1G), 12.5m Natural Colour, Orthorectified and Mosaiced Landsat 7 products. We also provide a wide range of custom Landsat 7 products for specific applications.Mapping 1:25,000 to 1:500,000 scale. Change detection. Vegetation analysis. Mineral alteration studies.. KEYWORD: continent, level 1g, mid-latitude, arctic, north atlantic ocean, western asia, caribbean, united states of america, northern hemisphere, global land, north america, oceania, south america, spectral, engineering, northern africa, mosaics, caribbean sea, eastern hemisphere, europe, polar, infrared wavelengths, africa, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, ceos, land surface, orthorectified, australia, canada, cgdi, visible wavelengths, canada, ocean, central america, middle east, southern hemisphere, change detection, atlantic ocean, geographic region, eurasia, western hemisphere, landscape, landsat, 
TITLE: SAR images from ERS, JERS and RADARSAT processed at Tromso Satellite Station since 1993. ABSTRACT: Tromso Satellite Station is equipped with one of the world's fastest processing and distribution system for ERS-1 SAR data. The ERS-1 SAR processor is based on a parallel processing concept and is developed and produced in Norway. A similar, but not as powerful, processor is used for JERS-1 SAR processing on a contract with ESA. The Norwegian developed broad band distribution system, NORSAT-B (2 Mb s), gives TSS a unique and flexible distribution capacity for full resolution SAR images. TSS offers a SAR full resolution image, a SAR low resolution image, and a SAR low resolution calibrated image from the ERS-1 SAR sensor. These images cover areas of 100x100 km and are produced within 8 minutes after acquisition. In agreement with ESA NASDA the same products based on the JERS-1 SAR sensor will be offered. The JERS-1 products cover an area of 75x75 km and are available approx. 20 minutes after data acquisition. Through the Norwegian national ERS-1 programme, the ERS-1 SAR data has been demonstrated to be most useful for several near real-time applications: * ice monitoring * ship detection * oil spill detection * weather and wave forecast * autumn ploughing TSS will continue the operations on the ERS-2 satellite when data from that satellite becomes available during Spring 1995. All ERS-1 SAR images processed are available for ordering from archive.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, jers-1, arctic, european remote sensing satellite-1, vegetation, european remote sensing satellite-2, surface roughness, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface, esa, esrin, spectral, engineering, radarsat-1, europe, land cover, vertical location, polar, active microwave instrument, japanese earth resources satellite-1, sar, topography, earth science, ceos, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, land surface, northern europe, biosphere, land resources, radar imagery, landforms, synthetic aperture radar, radar, ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, ami, 
TITLE: NOAA's Arctic Theme Page. ABSTRACT: The Arctic Theme Page is a rich and comprehensive web site focused on the Arctic. It provides access to widely distributed Arctic data and information for scientists, students, teachers, academia, managers, decision makers and the general public. "http:  www.arctic.noaa.gov" Included are: * Essays on key Arctic issues by respected Arctic scientists * Frequently Asked Questions About the Arctic * Current status of the Arctic environment? * Central access to widely-distributed data and information related to the Arctic from research institutions world-wide * Color graphics and animations of Arctic related data * Educational links, including topics such as Northern Lights, Arctic pollution, animals, maps, Arctic exploration, Native Peoples, and more.. KEYWORD: glaciers, contaminants, arctic ocean, arctic, ice temperature, usa, noaa, pollution, research, ice edges, sea ice, fresh water flux, water quality, water chemistry, climate indices, ice growth, melt, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, nao, north pacific ocean, polar, bering sea, ice floes, npi, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, climate, snow, ice temperature, ao, glaciers, ice sheets, ocean contaminants, environment, water quality, ocean, ice depth, thickness, oceans, pdo, geographic region, ocean circulation, teleconnections, snow depth, 
TITLE: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day, Version 4. ABSTRACT: MODIS Terra Sea Ice Extent and IST Daily L3 Global 4km EASE-Grid Day (MOD29E1D) contains the following fields: sea ice by reflectance and ice surface temperature (IST). Each data granule covers the entire globe with two separate arrays of 4321 x 4321 pixels: one for the Arctic and one for the Antarctic. Data extend from 15 September 2003 to present. Version 4 (V004) is the latest version of MODIS data available from NSIDC. The MODIS sea ice algorithm uses a Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) modified for sea ice to distinguish sea ice from open ocean based on reflective and thermal characteristics. Data are available by FTP, CD-ROM, DVD, or DLT. Please note that NSIDC now has a complete series of Version 5 data, which is the highest version number now available and represents the best quality of data.. KEYWORD: ice extent, nsidc, continent, terra, arctic, ease-grid, sea ice extent, ice temperature, echo, ist, usa, noaa, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, earth observing system, terra (am-1), eosdis, earth science information partners program, ecs, spectroradiometers, sea ice, global ocean, gridded, antarctic, modis, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, remote sensing, usa, nasa, polar sea ice, antarctica, daac, nasa, earth observing system data information system, global change, oceans, amd, esip, ice surface temperature, geographic region, 
TITLE: Curators Index to Marine and Lacustrine Geological Samples database. ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: The Index to Marine and Lacustrine Geological Samples, also known as the Core Curators' Data Base, contains inventory and basic lithology, texture, and age information for samples archived by participating oceanographic institutions and government agencies, in the U.S., Germany, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Most samples are available for further study, on request from the individual repository. Listings from the file include institutional contact information. Data are coded at the curatorial facility and include ship, cruise, sample id, latitude longitude, water depth, date of sample collection, sampling device, storage method, core diameter length and interval within core (if applicable), primary and secondary lithology and texture or rock type and mineralogy, other noted components, remarks and weathering notes, age, province, principal investigator, and descriptive comments. All samples include basic collection information, but not all samples have additional descriptors. The Index includes over 250,000 data records containing information for over 128,000 discrete sea floor and lakebed cores, grabs, dredges, and drill samples worldwide, as of June 2006. The Index is searchable by any parameter or combination of parameters. The database was designed by representatives of the curatorial facilities in cooperation with NGDC through a series of meetings sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF), beginning in 1977, and NSF continues to support coding of data into the Index. The Index is fully searchable via a www-forms interface on Internet, or via an interactive map interface, both accessible through NGDC's Web site. PURPOSE: Environmental and climate research aid. Designed to help researchers locate sea floor and lakebed geological samples for further analysis. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: Quality control: The descriptions are performed by the curating facility, which is responsible for the accuracy of the description. Coded entries are checked on receipt by the National Geophysical Data Center for gross errors. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition NATIVE: database tables Other Citation Details: This database is a collaboration between multiple institutions and government agencies, some of which are supported by the National Science Foundation to participate. The database is managed by NGDC on behalf of the curators' consortium of representatives from these institutions. Participating institutions include: Antarctic Research Facility Florida State University (ARFFSU), Bedford Institute of Oceanography (Canada), Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University (LDEO), National Lacustrine Core Repository at the University of Minnesota (LacCore), Northwest Consortium for Oceanographic Research at Oregon State University (NORCOR, OSU), Ocean Drilling Program (ODP and DSDP), NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory (PMEL), NOAA Atlantic Oceanographic and Marine Laboratories (AOML), Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences University of Miami (RSMAS), Scripps Institution of Oceanography University of California (SIO), School of Ocean and Earth Science Technology University of Hawaii (SOEST), University of Wisconsin-Madison (U WISC), University of Rhode Island Graduate School of Oceanography (URI), University of Southern California (USC), US Geological Survey (USGS), University of Texas Institute for Geophysics (UT), Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI). Samples are also included from the Alfred Wegener Institute (AWI) and GEOMAR in Germany, and the Southampton Oceanography Centre in the UK (UK SOC), and the IMAGES research program, although samples from these institutions are no longer actively being added. Data Set Creator: Curators of Marine and Lacustrine Geological Samples Consortium Multiple Oceanographic Institutions Antarctic Research Facility, Florida State UniversityIntegrated Ocean Drilling Program (DSDP, ODP, IODP)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia UniversityNational Lacustrine Core Repository, University of MinnesotaOregon State UniversityScripps Institution of OceanographyUniversity of Rhode IslandUS Geological Survey Woods Hole Oceanographic InstitutionNOAA National Geophysical Data CenterNational Science Foundation Publisher: US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), NOAA Satellite and Information Service (NESDIS), National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC) and World Data Center for Marine Geology and Geophysics, Boulder. Issue Identification: Index to Marine and Lacustrine Geological Samples Database or Core Curators' Database. KEYWORD: solid earth, arctic ocean, cop, arctic, sea floor, north atlantic ocean, doc, noaa, nesdis, ngdc, usa, noaa, archiving, paleoclimate, noaa climate and global change program, mediterranean sea, marine geology, earth science information partners program, ocean, lake records, grab samplers, global ocean, coastal ocean program, marine sediments, dredging devices, data search and retrieval, sediment composition, vertical location, polar, southern ocean, wdc, mgg, boulder, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, coring devices, igneous rocks, world data center for marine geology and geophysics, boulder, metamorphic rocks, sedimentary rocks, ships, ocean, national geophysical data center, nesdis, noaa, u.s. department of commerce, oceans, rocks, minerals, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, sediments, cgc, 
TITLE: Regionalization for Geocryological Conditions and Forecast, Yamal Peninsula, Russia. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of a classification of the geological environment of Yamal, based on a map of natural complexes of North West Siberia. 52 separate regions were identified, distinguished by landscape and geocryological conditions such as cryolithological structure, ground ice, soil temperature, soil ice content, distribution of cryogenic geological processes, character of vegetation cover, and natural protection of groundwater. The data set also includes an assessment of possible future changes in geocryological conditions, such as ground temperature and active layer thickness, under varying disruptions to the land surface (vegetation and snow).. KEYWORD: continent, yamal peninsula, west siberia, russia, active layer, soil moisture, water content, ggd, geocryology, arctic, vegetation, vegetation species, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, borehole, boreholes, thermal properties, russia, ground ice, soil temperature, cryostructure, soils, terrestrial hydrosphere, snow, ice, land records, europe, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, vegetation cover, land surface, engineering, biosphere, eastern europe, permafrost, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, 
TITLE: Historical Methane (CH4) Record from Ice Cores at Crete, Camp Century (Greenland), and Byrd Station (Antarctica), in CDIAC, Trends '93. ABSTRACT: About 80 ice core samples from Crete (drilled 1974) and Camp Century, Greenland (drilled 1961, 1962 and 1963-1966) and Byrd Station, Antarctica (drilled 1968 and 1971) were obtained from the National Science Foundation's ice core facility at the State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY) for the period from 170 to 3140 BP. The CH4 concentrations 250 years ago and earlier were about 700 ppbv which rapidly increased about 150 years ago. Arctic CH4 concentrations were about 10% higher in the Arctic than the Antarctic 250 years ago and earlier. The Greenland and Antarctica data were provided by Rasmussen and Khalil (Oregon Graduate Institute of Science and Technology, Oregon). Please use the following citation for this dataset: Rasmussen, R.A., and M.A.K. Khalil. 1994. 'Historical CH4 record from ice cores at Crete, Camp Century, and Byrd Station'. pp. 239-243. In T.A. Boden, D.P. Kaiser, R.J. Sepanski, and F.W. Stoss (eds.), 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change', ORNL CDIAC-65. Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA. Data from Crete, Camp Century, and Byrd Station are tabulated in the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center's (CDIAC's) 'Trends '93: A Compendium of Data on Global Change' (Boden, et al, eds., 1994) as depth, year, and CH4 concentration (ppmv) and is available via ftp: "ftp:  cdiac.esd.ornl.gov pub trends93 ch4 " CDIAC has provided an anonymous FTP area to all data files, retrieval codes, and descriptive files for all data available in CDIAC's anonymous FTP in pub trends93 ch4. The FTP address is CDIAC.ESD.ORNL.GOV and 128.219.24.36 and input your email address as the password. The data bases are arranged as subdirectories in  pub trends93  (co2, ch4, trace, emiss, precip, and temp) that correspond to major chapter headings in Trends '93. The data files are arranged as xxxxx.yyy where xxxxx is the name of the station, country, site, region, or principle investigator and yyy is the page number in Trends '93 (example: vostok.231 refers to the Vostok ice core dataset as tabulated on page 231.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, trends'93, byrd station, greenhouse effect, arctic, paleoclimate, greenhouse gas, greenland, north america, snow, ice chemistry, ground stations, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, ground-based observations, polar, amd, us, ftp, trace gases, trace species, earth science, cryosphere, camp century, ceos, usa, nasa, antarctica, ch4, crete, atmospheric chemistry, carbon and hydrocarbon compounds, global warming, methane, amd, ice core records, ice core, geographic region, 
TITLE: C. National Reference Maps, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: For the 2001 Census, four national maps (covering all of Canada) shows the location of census divisions, economic regions, census metropolitan areas, census agglomerations, and the Statistical Area of Classification. Census Divisions, 2001 shows the census division (CD) boundaries and codes within each province or territory, on a background of major lakes and rivers. The map also lists CD names in CD code order, by province and territory. The scale of this map is 1: 10,000,000 (with an inset showing southern Quebec and southern Ontario at 1: 5,000,000) and its approximate dimensions are 91 cm by 61 cm (36 inches by 26 inches). The approximate size of the PDF file is 1.2 MB. Economic Regions and Census Divisions, 2001 shows the economic regions (ER) and census division (CD) boundaries and codes within each province or territory. The map also lists, by province or territory, the ER names in ER code order, within which their component CD codes and names are numerically listed. The scale of this map is 1: 10,000,000 (with an inset showing southern Quebec and southern Ontario at 1: 5,000,000) and its approximate dimensions are 91 cm by 61 cm (36 inches by 26 inches). The approximate size of the PDF file is 1.4 MB. Census Metropolitan Areas and Census Agglomeration, 2001 shows the general location of census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and census agglomerations (CAs) within each province or territory, with large dots designating CAs. The map also lists the CMA CA names in CMA CA code order, province or territory. The scale of this map is 1: 10,000,000 (with an inset showing southern Quebec and southern Ontario at 1: 5,000,000) and its approximate dimensions are 91 cm by 61 cm (36 inches by 26 inches). The approximate size of PDF file is 1.3 MB. Statistical Area Classification, 2001 Census Subdivisions shows census subdivisions (CSDs) classified by colour according to the category of the Statistical Area Classification (SAC) they are assigned to. The categories include: component of census metropolitan area and census agglomeration area census agglomeration, components of census metropolitan area and census agglomeration influenced zone (strongly influenced, moderately influenced, weakly influenced or not influenced), or components of the territories (Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Yukon Territory). The scale of this map is 1: 7,500,000 (with an inset showing southern Quebec and southern Ontario at 1: 4,000,000) and its approximate dimensions are 91 cm by 91 cm (36inches by 36 inches). The approximate size of PDF file is 4.3 MB. Catalogue Number for Internet: 92F0144XIB01000, Catalogue Number for CD-ROM: 92F0144CB01000, Catalogue Number for Print-on-demand: 92F0144XPB01000 ... for additional informatiom visit our organization's website.National Reference Maps cover all of Canada and show location of CD, ER, CMA, CA, and SAC. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They aren't intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries.. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, statistical areas, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, federal electoral districts, census agglomerations, handbooks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, geographical classification, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, classification, quebec, census divisions, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, census subdivisions, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: F. Census Tract Reference Maps, by Census Metropolitan Area or by Census Agglomeration, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The series of Census Tract Reference Maps covers all 27 census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and the 19 census agglomerations (CAs) with census tracts. The maps show the boundaries and names of census tracts and census subdivisions, as well as the urban core, urban fringe and rural fringe within the CMAs or CAs. The maps include background information such as rivers, lakes, railroad tracks and provincial boundaries, and other significant features. There are 73 maps in the series, with one to four maps covering each CMA or CA. The map scales range from 1:25,000 to 1:2,000,000, and the maximum map dimensions are approximately 91 cm by 101 cm (36 inches by 40 inches). A reference guide is available (92F0145GIE). Note: The publications in the Census Tract Profile series contain corresponding maps for each census metropolitan area and census agglomeration. Catalogue number for Internet is: 92F0145XIE01000 Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0145XCB01000 Catalogue number for print-on-demand is: 92F01XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The maps are designed to help the users identify boundaries and names of census tracts and census subdivisions, urban cores, urban fringe and rural fringe within the CMAs or CA. The maps also give users background information like rivers, lakes, or railroads. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: census metropolitan areas, continent, newfoundland and labrador, census tracts, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, census agglomerations, handbooks, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: SHEBA Upper Ocean CTD and Thermal Microstructure, Western Arctic Ocean. ABSTRACT: This data set includes conductivity, temperature, and depth (CTD) measurements along with thermal microstructure data (such as, turbulent thermal variance, turbulent kinetic energy, and vertical temperature gradient) collected from 12 October 1997 to 30 September 1998. The storage, redistribution, and ultimate release of the energy contributed by incoming shortwave radiation has major effects on the thickness and seasonal evolution of sea ice cover and the state of the upper ocean. As part of the Surface Heat Budget of the Arctic (SHEBA) project, this research was designed to (1) investigate upper ocean processes and their role in ice-albedo feedback, and (2) develop and test suitable models or parameterizations for use in large-scale simulations. Data are in space-delimited ASCII text format and are available via FTP.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, ocean water conductivity measurements, arctic, opp-9701391, water temperature, ocean water temperature measurements, ocean temperature, arcss151, usa, noaa, arctic system science, ctd probes, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, conductivity, ocean heat flux, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, arctic system science, oaii, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, terrestrial hydrosphere, ocean thermal energy, ocean water salinity measurements, ground-based observations, polar, salinity, arcss, oaii, sheba, opp-0084296, surface heat budget of the arctic ocean, earth science, ceos, thermistors, office of polar programs, national science foundation, sheba, turbulence, ocean water salinity, surface water, ocean water temperature, water depth, ocean platforms, oceans, salinity, density, transmissometers, geographic region, ocean circulation, arcss data coordination center, nsf, opp, arcss, conductivity temperature depth probes, 
TITLE: IABP Drifting Buoy Pressure, Temperature, Position, and Interpolated Ice Velocity. ABSTRACT: The International Arctic Buoy Programme (IABP) maintains a network of drifting buoys to provide meteorological and oceanographic data for real-time operational requirements and research purposes including support to the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) and the World Weather Watch (WWW) Programme. An average of 25 buoys are in service at any time. The IABP drifting buoy data products described here are 12-hour interpolated pressure, temperature, position, and ice velocity grids available by year from 1979 through the present. Drifting buoys measure atmospheric pressure, air temperature, and other geophysical quantities. These data are processed at the University of Washington's Polar Science Center, and are interpolated to produce gridded fields. Data are usually updated by May of each year, and are available online from the Polar Science Center. NSIDC catalogs the data set and provides this documentation with links to the Polar Science Center's IABP site in order to publicize and facilitate access to the data. Several related data sets are available from the Polar Science Center's IABP site, including a CD-ROM containing IABP data and derived products from 1979 through 1999, an ocean buoy data set with temperature and salinity from drifting buoys from 1985 through 1994, GIF files graphically depicting gridded products, and a surface air temperature (SAT) data set (the IABP POLES SAT data set) that combines data from buoys, manned drifting stations, and meteorological land stations.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, floating ice, atmospheric temperature, arctic, usa, noaa, buoys, sea ice velocity, sea ice, ice drift, thermometers, sea ice motion, north pacific ocean, climate change, pressure gauges, drifting buoys, barometers, ocean, global change, buoy data, oceans, geographic region, north atlantic ocean, air temperature, eosdis, international arctic buoy programme, noaa climate and global change program, iabp, temperature, ice velocity, gridded data, bering sea, polar, si daac, nsidc daac, ice floes, pacific ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, beaufort sea, greenland sea, atmospheric pressure, daac, ice buoys, snow ice, radio transmitters, atlantic ocean, cgc, 
TITLE: Svalbard Fjord Conductivity, Temperature, Depth Data, 2001-2004. ABSTRACT: This data set includes vertical ocean profiles of temperature, salinity and backscatter beneath ice cover in Svalbard Fjord, Norway. The data were collected by a Seabird Conductivity-Temperature-Depth (CTD) system mounted on a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) on three trips: the north side of Van Mijenfjorden in March 2001; the south of Van Mijenfjorden in March 2004; the south of Van Mijenfjorden in June 2004. To address the differences between theory and observation regarding the rate of ice formation, supercooling in the ocean boundary layer, and the effective diffusivities of heat and salt, the small-scale physics of sea ice formation were studied. This data set is available as tab-delimited ASCII text files, sizes 32 KB to 2,033 KB.. KEYWORD: nsidc, continent, arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, water pressure, water temperature, national snow and ice data center, ocean temperature, arcss150, usa, noaa, opp-0082687, arctic system science, conductivity, temperature, depth, usa, nsf, ctd, svalbard, scandinavia, conductivity, ocean optics, europe, polar, salinity, svalbard and jan mayen, earth science, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, northern europe, optical backscatter, scattering, ocean, norway, oceans, ocean pressure, salinity, density, atlantic ocean, geographic region, arcss data coordination center, arcss, nsf, opp, conductivity temperature depth probes, 
TITLE: International Partnerships in Ice Core Sciences. ABSTRACT: Society would benefit greatly from the ability to efficiently allocate resources to minimize disruptions caused by climate change. This requires the ability to predict the response of future climate to natural and anthropogenic forcing on time scales of months to centuries. To do so we need to understand how the sun, ocean, land, atmosphere, and cryosphere interact to create the climate that controls so many aspects of our daily lives. One of the ways the science community develops this understanding is to study the earth's climate history. By learning how and why the climate changed in the past, we will be able to make better predictions of how the climate will change in the future. Ice sheets and glaciers contain well-ordered accumulations of ancient ice that fell as snow years to millions of years ago. The dust particles, soluble chemicals, and gases trapped in the ice are routinely used to study how the climate system operated in the past, and how it will operate in the future. To sample this ice, an international community of scientists and engineers drill into ice and collect ice cores. The information from ice core programs helps explain how climate changes occur throughout the world, not just at the site at which the core was drilled. This is possible because most of the material in the core, such as dust and gases, is representative of large regions. Ice coring projects range in size from a single investigator working for a single field season, to multi-national, multi-year efforts. Investigations using ice cores have documented how climate varied naturally before anthropogenic influences, and have shown there is a tight link between temperature and the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases. Ice core data have become central to our understanding of past climate change, and to assessments of possible future climate change. Ice core investigations are now a major branch of climate research, and the complexity of ice core projects has increased accordingly. To meet the expectations of the climate research community, increasingly complex future ice coring projects will require international collaboration. In March 2004, representatives from the international ice coring research community convened a workshop to develop concepts for the projects that are needed to predict both natural and anthropogenic climate change. The International Partnerships in Ice Core Sciences (IPICS) Workshop was supported by the U.S National Science Foundation. Fifty-five scientists, engineers, and funding agency representatives from Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States attended the workshop. The major recommendations of the workshop are: -Continue the Dialogue. Representatives of the international ice coring community should meet in 2005 to discuss implementation of current plans, and then continue to have regular meetings that include the exchange of information on ice core science and drilling that will be helpful to future and ongoing projects. Heinz Miller, on behalf of the European Polar Board, stated that Europe would like to host a follow-up IPICS meeting during 2005. -Retrieve Longest Possible Antarctic Ice Core Climate Record. A program should be initiated to collect an Antarctic ice core climate record longer than 1.2 million years. This program will provide insights into the way future climate will respond to changes in the distribution of solar heating, by examining how natural changes, driven by changes in the earths orbit, evolved over this long time frame. Initially this will require a multi-year effort to locate the optimal drilling locations for the collection of cores to address this topic. Ice cores should be collected from at least two locations in East Antarctica. The site selection work should be initiated during the International Polar Year. Additional workshops should be held to develop a framework for this program. -Longest Possible Arctic Ice Core Climate Record. A program should be initiated to collect the longest possible Arctic ice core climate record, with the specific goal of completely penetrating ice deposited the last time the earth was in a warm (interglacial) state like today. This program will provide critical insights into the natural variability of our current climate and, by elucidating how the last warm period ended, may yield information on how the current warm period will end. The optimal location for this project has been narrowed down to a small area in northwest Greenland. A minor amount of additional site selection work, which could occur early in the International Polar Year, is required before drilling can proceed. Preparations for the drilling could be completed by the end of the International Polar Year. Additional workshops should be held to develop a detailed plan for this program. -Spatial Array of Ice Cores. A program should be initiated to collect a spatial array of ice cores on time scales ranging from centuries to millennia. Many climate questions can only be answered if there is a well-designed spatial array to investigate how hemisphere-scale climate phenomena interact to create climate, and a coordinated effort is required to develop such an array. The individual coring projects that make up the array should be facilitated, but not directed, at the international level. This program would include polar sites with records extending into the last glacial period, and a worldwide distribution of sites with higher time resolution records extending through the last millennium. Some of the smaller individual projects that make up this program could be completed during the International Polar Year. The site selection for some of the larger individual projects that make up this program could be initiated during the International Polar Year. Additional workshops should be held to develop a planning document for an international body to facilitate the development of this global array. -Improve Ice Coring Methods. An ongoing international effort to improve ice coring methods should be initiated. This effort would focus on improving drilling fluids, core quality, drilling efficiency, and replicate coring methods. This effort could be facilitated with annual workshops and international exchanges of drilling staff. To reach the objective of being able to predict future climate variations, a new international approach to ice coring is required. Implementing these recommendations is a necessary step towards reaching that objective. To view the full report, please see: http:  www.nicl-smo.unh.edu IPICS IPICSWorkshop.pdf. KEYWORD: glaciers, continent, time scales, arctic, greenland, usa, nsf, north america, snow, ice chemistry, snow, ice, antarctic, gases, chemistry, polar, amd, us, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, office of polar programs, national science foundation, coring devices, climate, antarctica, glaciers, ice sheets, climate record, ice sheets, ice depth, thickness, amd, ice core, geographic region, ice drilling, nsf, opp, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua and SeaWiFS Level 3 9KM Yearly Merged Chlorophyll Product. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of merged satellite measurements of global ocean chlorophyll data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform, and the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWIFS), in orbit on the OrbView-2 (formerly SeaStar) platform. Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). MODIS Aqua processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html . SeaWiFS processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS SW_proc.html . The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level-3 9 km merged chlorophyll products are generated routinely for daily, 8-day, monthly, seasonal and annual time periods once the refined products for each of the contributing missions are processed. Increased coverage over the single mission product is realized through the merging of the two data sets. There is a substantial improvement (> 50%) in coverage at the daily level, decreasing with the increase in the temporal period binned. The MODIS SeaWiFS merged product is generated in essentially two steps. First, the MODIS Level-3 file is reduced in resolution from 4 to 9 km to match the global resolution of the SeaWiFS chlorophyll product. This involves combining the sum and sum squared field values for the (typically) four 4 km bins into the corresponding single 9 km bin. In the second step, the reduced-resolution MODIS file and the corresponding SeaWiFS Level-3 file are combined. Because both input files are at the same 9 km resolution, the summing is performed bin-by-bin. The Standard Mapped Image file that is generated from the merged Level-3 binned file stores scaled 16 bit integer values rather than the usual 8 bit values, giving the user much greater numerical precision. The actual images displayed on the Ocean Color website in PNG format are provided for visual inspection only. Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS and SeaWiFS Level 3 Merged Chlorophyll data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov Merged . KEYWORD: arctic ocean, arctic, eos, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, eosdis, aqua, earth science information partners program, global ocean, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, sea-viewing wide field-of-view sensor, seastar, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, orbital sciences corporation orbview-2 satellite, oceans, amd, seawifs, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: DMSP SSM I Pathfinder Daily EASE-Grid Brightness Temperatures. ABSTRACT: The NOAA NASA Pathfinder Program Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I) Level 3 Equal-Area Scalable Earth-Grid (EASE-Grid) Brightness Temperatures consist of gridded data in one of three projections, Northern Hemisphere, Southern Hemisphere and full global. The data gridding technique maximizes the radiometric integrity of the original brightness temperature values, maintains high spatial and temporal precision, and involves no averaging of original swath data. Coverage is global and begins 9 July 1987; processing is ongoing. Resolution is 25 km for all channels; 85 GHz channels are also provided at 12.5 km resolution. There are 18 brightness temperature files per day for a given projection, and two corresponding time files. Data are contained in flat binary files, either one grid per file consisting of 2-byte integer arrays of brightness temperatures in tenths of kelvins, or in the case of time files, 1-byte integer arrays consisting of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) in tenths of hours. Data are available via FTP as processing is completed. Users can order temporal or spatial subsets of data with the Graphical Interface for Subsetting, Mapping, and Ordering (GISMO) Web-based tool. Users can also request the complete data set or a long time series of data. Users may also order historical data on CD-ROM, while supplies last. For more information about related projects, please see NOAA NASA Polar Pathfinder Data. For more information on the NSIDC EASE-Grid, geolocation tools for working in EASE-Grid, and other products available in EASE-Grid, please see All About EASE-Grid.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f11, arctic, ease-grid, dmsp, defense meteorological satellite program, dmsp 5d-2, f11, dmsp 5d-2, f13, usa, noaa, north america, spectral, engineering, north pacific ocean, pathfinder, remote sensing, passive microwave, brightness temperature, hudson bay, earth observing system data information system, canada, ocean, amd, geographic region, chukchi sea, continent, ease, special sensor microwave, imager, north atlantic ocean, global, noaa pathfinder, eosdis, noaa, nasa pathfinder, defense meteorological satellite program-f8, noaa, nasa pathfinder program, earth science information partners program, baffin bay, microwave, antarctic, gridded data, polar, bering sea, amd, us, idn_node gsfc, nsidc, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, dmsp 5d-2, f8, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, greenland sea, ssm, i, amundsen sea, nasa pathfinder, esip, atlantic ocean, defense meteorological satellite program-f13, 
TITLE: Fluxgate Magnetometer Data at Zhongshan Station,Antactic,Year 2001. ABSTRACT: The Fluxgate magnetometer is to measure relative geomagnetic variations at 3 dimensions, i.e., x, y and z components.The data is recorded on MO disks with two copies, one for Polar Research Institute of China, and the other goes to National Institute of Polar Research, Japan, according to the scientific agreement between the two institues.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, polar, magnetometers, arctic, earth science, ceos, antarctica, zhongshan station, geomagnetism, amd, cn, amd, ground stations, geographic region, 
TITLE: I. Dissemination Area Reference Maps, by Census Division, for Areas Outside Census Metropolitan Areas and Census Agglomerations, (2001 Census), Canada. ABSTRACT: The set of Dissemination Area Reference Maps by Census Division covers areas outside census metropolitan areas (CMAs) and census agglomerations (CAs). Each map in the set covers one census division (CD) and shows the boundaries and codes of dissemination areas within that CD. The maps also show the boundaries of census subdivisions, census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations, as well as urban areas and representative points for designated places. The maps include background information such as rivers, lakes, railroad tracks and provincial boundaries, and other significant features. There are approximately 600 maps in this set?generally two maps per census division. Some maps include insets to show detail for the congested areas. These insets appear on the main map where possible, but in some cases they appear on a second map sheet. The maps vary in scale and size; the maximum dimensions are approximately 91 cm by 101 cm (36 inches by 40 inches). A reference guide is available (92F0146GIE). Note: Dissemination area reference maps are also available by census tract for large urban centres?census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations (92F0146XCB, 92F0146XIB, 92F0146XPB) and by small urban centres?non-tracted census agglomerations (92F0147XCB, 92F0147XIB, 92F0147XPB). Together, the three sets of dissemination area maps cover all of Canada. Catalogue number for free Internet usage is: 92F0148XIB01000, Catalogue number for CD-ROM is: 92F0148XCB01000 Catalogue number for print-on-demand is: 92F0148XPB01000 ...for additional information visit our organization's web site.The maps are designed to enable users to identify the general location and boundaries of the geographic areas for which 2001 Census data are available. The maps should not be used for digitizing purposes nor to determine the precise location of boundaries. They are not intended to serve as a legal or cadastral representation of geographic areas.. KEYWORD: continent, newfoundland and labrador, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, reference maps, census of population, nunavut, northwest territories, northern hemisphere, north america, ontario, saskatchewan, boundaries, human dimensions, polar, maps, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, dissemination areas, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, canada, prince edward island, new brunswick, geographic region, western hemisphere, 
TITLE: Surface sediment grain size data set of Kongsfjorden, in the Arctic. ABSTRACT: 50 surface sediment samples were taken during the fourth and fifth Chinese national Arctic research expedition in 2007 and 2008. Grain size analysis was conducted by the Laser particle size analyzers and Sieves methods. Surface sediments of Kongsfjorden are mainly composed of silt, gravel, silty sand and clay. Different kinds of marine-glacial sediment appear in different areas of Kongsfjorden due to different environments, indicating the polar-specific mode of deposition.. KEYWORD: polar, erosion, sedimentation, svalbard and jan mayen, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, land surface, grain size, ocean, arctic, cn, atlantic ocean, geographic region, sediments, 
TITLE: Basal Peat Radiocarbon Dates From Northern North America and Greenland. ABSTRACT: An Excel spreadsheet listing radiocarbon dates on wetland inception (basal peat) in Northern North America (north of 40?N) and Greenland along with depth interval of dated samples. As of June 2001, the spreadsheet contained approximately 1600 records.This database is to synthesize information pertaining to paleoenvironmental conditions (specifically glaciation, climate and sea level change) in glaciated North America from the last glacial maximum to present. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, northern hemisphere, peatlands, north america, ontario, isotopes, aquatic ecosystems, land records, north pacific ocean, geochemistry, nova scotia, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, new brunswick, radiocarbon, geographic region, western hemisphere, microfossils, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, north atlantic ocean, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, greenland, wetlands, united states of america, paleontology, ocean, lake records, saskatchewan, polar, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, carbon 14, environment, prince edward island, ice core records, atlantic ocean, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: National Landslide Information Center; USGS, Denver. ABSTRACT: The National Landslide Information Center (NLIC) maintains a computerized bibliography of more than 10,000 landslide maps and reports, file copies of more than 6,000 maps and reports, and files of uncataloged landslide photographs, newspaper clippings, and legislative information. The NLIC houses information on Worldwide Landslide Dams data and a World Landslide Inventory as well as maintaining a listing containing the names and addresses of over 1,000 landslide researchers and landslide data users.. KEYWORD: solid earth, sedimentology, terrain elevation, seismology, arctic, aedd, degradation, earthquake occurrences, global, geology, clay, field geology, hazard, land, human dimensions, geological hazards, field maps, usgs, edc, soils, terrain, polar, earth_crust_usgs_landslide1, erosion, sedimentation, aerial photography, topography, earth science, ceos, natural hazards, land surface, earthquake, maps, charts, nlic, landslide, sedimentation, landforms, gravity, usgs, gd, denver, landslides, erosion, catastrophic phenomena, geographic region, usgs, eros, photography, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Planktonic Ostracods from the Polish Academy of Sciences (EUROBIS). ABSTRACT: This data served by the European Ocean Biogeographic Information System (EurOBIS) is a subset of Blachowiak-Samolyk, K. and Angel, M. Atlas of Southern Ocean Planktonic Ostracods ("http:  ocean.iopan.gda.pl ostracoda "). This dataset encompasses records on pelagic crustaceans in the Halocyprididae. See the global atlas description at http:  www.marbef.org data dataset.php?dasid=542 [Source: The information provided in the summary was extracted from the MarBEF Data System at "http:  www.marbef.org data eurobisproviders.php"]. KEYWORD: continent, arctic ocean, biological classification, pelagic environment, animals, invertebrates, crustaceans, arthropods, invertebrate zoology, arctic, north atlantic ocean, eurobis, halocyprididae, ostracods, obis, mediterranean sea, ostracodes, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, ostracoda, presence, europe, polar, census of marine life, coml, pelagic habitat, zooplankton, european marine waters, earth science, ocean biogeographic information system, biosphere, ocean, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: MODIS Aqua Level 3 Global Ocean Mapped 4 KM Monthly Climatology Ocean Color Products. ABSTRACT: This data set consists of satellite measurements of global ocean color data obtained by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in orbit on the Aqua (formerly EOS PM) platform. MODIS ocean color products are processed and distributed by the Ocean Biology Processing Group (OBPG). Processing details can be found at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS MODISA_processing.html The Aqua MODIS Level 3 standard mapped image (SMI) products are integer representations of binned data products. This image is an 8-bit, two-dimensional array of an Equidistant Cylindrical projection of the globe. (The capability to produce 16-bit SMI products has been implemented by the OBPG, and the MODIS Ocean Color products are expected to be regenerated as 16-bits values at the next reprocessing in about 1 year.) Each SMI product contains one image of a geophysical parameter and is stored in one physical HDF file. The Level 3 binned products are used to generate mapped data products on 4 and 9 km equi-rectangular projection. The products are generated for the following binning periods: Daily, 8-Day, Monthly, Monthly Climatology, Seasonal, Seasonal Climatology, Annual, Cumulative. Five SMI products are generated from each standard Ocean Color binned data product, one for each of the following geophysical parameters: -Chlorophyll-a concentration (CHLO) -Normalized water-leaving radiance at band 5 (L551) -Aerosol optical thickness at band 8 for atmospheric correction (T869) -Angstrom coefficient, 531-869 nm, for atmospheric correction (A531) -Diffuse attenuation coefficient at 490 nm (measure of optical clarity) (K490) Each SMI product represents data binned over the period covered by the parent product. The arithmetic mean is used in each case to obtain the values for the SMI grid points from the binned data products. More detailed information on the Level-3 Standard Mapped Image data product format specifications can be found in the document at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov DOCS Ocean_Level-3_SMI_Products.pdf Please, read the MODIS Ocean Parent document for more details: http:  gcmd.nasa.gov getdif.htm?MODIS_OCEAN_PARENT Browse Level 3 Standard Mapped Images (SMI) at http:  oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov cgi level3.pl The Aqua MODIS Level 3 Mapped data files are available from the FTP site at ftp:  oceans.gsfc.nasa.gov MODISA Mapped . KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, chlorophyll-a, aerosols, water-leaving radiance, arctic, eos, global, moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer, aerosol optical depth, thickness, eosdis, ocean color, aqua, earth science information partners program, aerosol optical thickness, global ocean, aerosol reflectance, ocean optics, attenuation, transmission, aerosol extinction, modis, polar, amd, us, ocean chemistry, pigments, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, chlorophyll, ceos, diffuse attenuation coefficient, usa, nasa, aerosol backscatter, aerosol radiance, earth observing system, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, extinction coefficients, geographic region, indian ocean, normalized water-leaving radiance, 
TITLE: LAKE BROWNSWORTH METEOROLOGICAL STATION MEASUREMENTS: Wind. ABSTRACT: [From "http:  huey.colorado.edu LTER datasets meteorology brown.html"] ABSTRACT: As part of the Long Term Ecological Research in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, meteorological data was collected from various locations throughout Taylor, Wright and Victoria Valleys. This data set contains data for the Lake Brownsworth meteorology station (in Wright Valley). The above data set includes wind data. To query air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries met_queries.jsp". To query AVERAGE(DAILY and MONTHLY)air temperature, precipitation, relative humidity, radiation and soil temperature of any station, please visit: "http:  huey.colorado.edu queries avg_met_queries.jsp".. KEYWORD: atmosphere, continent, lter, arctic, lter automatic weather network, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, wind vanes, winds, surface winds, arws, polar, amd, us, meteorology, wind speed, earth science, wind direction, ceos, anemometers, antarctica, atmospheric winds, automatic remote weather station, amd, geographic region, mcmurdo dry valleys, lawn, 
TITLE: European Register of Marine Species. ABSTRACT: The European Register of Marine Species (ERMS) is a register of marine species in Europe to facilitate marine biodiversity research and management. The foundation of biodiversity research and management is correctly identifying and naming species. This project will produce a register of marine species in Europe, linked with a bibliography of identification guides, register of taxonomic experts, locations of collections of reference specimens, and an Information Pack on European marine biodiversity. The species register is novel in its geographic extent, range of taxa covered, and use of state-of-the-art World Wide Web software for publication and networking. It is anticipated that the Register will become a standard reference (and technological tool) for marine biodiversity training, research and management in Europe. The project started in April 1998 and will end in March 2000. People interested, especially those with expertise in marine taxa, are invited to contact the co-ordinator or other participants to get on the project circulation list. The European Register of Marine Species (ERMS) is produced by a research consortium funded by the European Union under the Marine Science and Technology (MAST) programme. [This information was adapted from the ERMS website at Univ. of Southampton, School of Biological Sciences, UK.]. KEYWORD: mollusks, arctic ocean, continent, biological classification, cnidarians, animals, invertebrates, jellyfishes, crustaceans, arthropods, echinoderms, ecological dynamics, arctic, north atlantic ocean, algae, vegetation, vegetation species, western asia, taxonomy, mediterranean sea, plants, microalgae, plankton, aquatic ecosystems, marine habitat, biodiversity functions, coastal habitat, baltic sea, europe, polar, macroalgae (seaweeds), sea anemones, pelagic habitat, community dynamics, asia, earth science, usa, nasa, biosphere, animals, vertebrates, anthozoans, hexacorals, benthic habitat, ocean, north sea, atlantic ocean, geographic region, estuarine habitat, northeast atlantic ocean, black sea, 
TITLE: Level 2.5 daily AMSR satellite wind speeds with assigned directions (1987-2007) (Ardizzone et al.). ABSTRACT: This data set combines data derived from the Special Sensor Microwave Imager (SSM I), the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR), the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI), Quikscat and other missions using a variational analysis method (VAM) to produce a consistent climatological record of ocean surface winds at 25 km resolution and provide near real-time support for numerical weather prediction and ENSO related studies. Data has been processed beginning with the operational phase of the F8 DMSP SSM I in July 1987 and is ongoing. It represents a continuation and expansion of the SSM I surface wind velocity data set under the NASA Pathfinder Program (see http:  podaac.jpl.nasa.gov products product079.html ). The data products will be distributed via the JPL PODAAC for research and near-real time operational support. Satellite surface wind data are obtained from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS, http:  www.remss.com  ). RSS uses a more accurate sea-surface emissivity model resulting in much better consistency between wind speed retrievals from microwave radiometers (SSM I, AMSR, TMI) and those from scatterometers (NSCAT and Seawinds). All observations are referenced to a height of 10 meters. The conventional data used in the analyses is obtained from the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). These consist of all ship and buoy observations of surface wind. Additional buoy data is obtained from the Pacific Marine and Environmental Laboratory (PMEL) under the Tropical Atmosphere Ocean Project (TAO, http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov tao  ). When available, buoys from the Pilot Research Moored Array in the Atlantic (PIRATA) are also used ( http:  www.pmel.noaa.gov pirata  ). All conventional observations are adjusted to a height of 10 meters assuming neutral stability. When unavailable, instrument heights are assumed to be 19.5m and 5m for ships and buoys respectively. Background analyses of U and V winds as a starting estimate of the wind field are obtained from the Computation and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at NCAR ( http:  dss.ucar.edu datasets  ). Two product streams are produced: First-look (FLK) and Late-look (LLK). FLK products use the ECMWF Operational Analysis (DS111.1) as a background and are available within 6-months of real-time. LLK products use the ECMWF ERA-40 Reanalysis (DS117.0) as a background. The Level 2.5 products are derived from the Level 3.0 gridded VAM analyses by assigning directions daily to the wind speed observations for each microwave sensor (DMSP SSM I, AMSR-E, TRMM TMI). Data products are stored in binary "bytemap" files to parallel the original satellite data files from RSS. All observations are mapped to a 25 km grid and packed into 1-byte integers. Data distributed in NetCDF format ( http:  www.unidata.ucar.edu software netcdf  ). All data sets contain U and V components of the wind in m s. Each data set is archived using the following naming convention: NAME_YYYYMMDD_vVVlLLPPP.TTT.gz where NAME - unique identifier describing the data YYYYMMDD - date time expressed as year, month, day VV - product version number (in tenths) LL - product level designation (in tenths) PPP - product stream (flk or llk) TTT - file type designating the data format For example, "amsre_20040101_v10l25flk.nc.gz" designates a level 2.5 (l25) data set containing AMSR-E satellite wind speeds with assigned directions for January 1, 2004 from version 1.0 (v10) of the first-look (flk) product stream in NetCDF (.nc) format. The ".gz" node indicates that the file must first be de-compressed using the GNU zip (gzip) compression utility.. KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, reason, arctic, eosdis, aqua, research, education, and applications solution network, earth science information partners program, advanced microwave scanning radiometer, global ocean, surface winds, polar, ocean winds, discover, amd, us, southern ocean, amsr, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, usa, nasa, distributed info. services for climate, ocean prod., visualizations for earth res., atmospheric winds, earth observing system data information system, ocean, earth observing system, aqua, oceans, amd, esip, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: Landsat Multispectral Scanner (MSS) Imagery. ABSTRACT: Landsat multispectral scanner (MSS) data from the Landsat satellite series are available from the National Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive located at the U.S. Geological Survey's EROS Data Center and are provided at the cost of reproduction. Landsat MSS data also are collected by 16 foreign receiving stations (i.e., Landsat Ground Stations Working Group participants), nine of which provide inventory metadata to the EROS Data Center. These foreign receiving stations include Australia, Brazil, Canada, Italy, Japan, Maspalomas, Pakistan, South Africa, and Sweden. Purchasers are subject to individual distribution site policy and pricing directives.. KEYWORD: continent, visible imagery, erts, landsat-3, landsat-2, landsat-5, landsat-4, arctic, infrared imagery, echo, global, lgsowg, mss, greenland, edips, north america, imagery, south america, spectral, engineering, satellite, europe, radiance, vertical location, polar, amd, us, infrared wavelengths, africa, usgs, eros, nlaps, australia, new zealand, asia, earth science, raster, ceos, remote sensing, australia, land surface, antarctica, visible wavelengths, amd, landsat-1, geographic region, eurasia, usgs, multispectral scanner, landsat, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Cenozoic Diatom First and Last Appearance Data. ABSTRACT: Location and age data for first and last appearance of Diatom taxa in the global ocean. Abstract (from the online documentation) First and last occurrences of 389 diatom species from the first global Cenozoic record are used to reconstruct the position of major oceanographic boundaries. First appearances and extinctions group in three latitudinal bands: middle to high northern latitudes, equatorial region, and high southern latitudes. Sparse Paleogene occurrences were limited to southern high latitudes along the equivalent of the modern Antarctic polar front. Its late middle Eocene to middle Miocene position varied within 10B0, and within a 20B0 band from middle Miocene to present, suggesting an association with global cooling. First and last occurrence events appear in the two remaining latitudinal regions during the Eocene and increase in a stepwise fashion, mimicking significant cooling events. At about 16 Ma, first and last appearances shift from the North Atlantic to the North Pacific. Low-latitude data suggest low surface water productivity prior to 40 Ma, while increased abundance from the middle Miocene correlates with expansion of the east Antarctic Ice Sheet.. KEYWORD: microfossils, arctic ocean, biological classification, sediment corers, past global changes, igbp, cenozoic, arctic, usa, noaa, paleoclimate, pages, ocean, lake records, stratigraphic sequence, plants, protists, microalgae, paleo start date 65 ma, global ocean, polar, southern ocean, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, phanerozoic, ships, diatoms, ocean, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, paleo stop date 0 ma, indian ocean, sediments, ocean circulation, 
TITLE: Controls on Carbon Flux in Moist Acidic Versus Nonacidic Tundra, Arctic LTER Data. ABSTRACT: In an effort to understand soil effects on carbon flux from moist acidic tundra versus moist non-acidic tundra, the investigators collected soil respiration, soil temperature, soil moisture, thaw depth, soil cation, leaf area, leaf nutrient, and litter nutrient data from Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) sites in northern Alaska. The ARCSS Data Coordination Center provides links to these data, which are archived at the Arctic LTER Web site.. KEYWORD: nsidc, soil moisture, water content, alpine, tundra, arcss090, icp-aes, ecological dynamics, lter, arctic, usa, noaa, arctic system science, north america, alaska, north slope, soil temperature, ground stations, tundra vegetation, soil cations, phosphorus, ground-based observations, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer, opp-9902721, arctic system science data coordination center, soil sampler, magnesium, leaf nutrients, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen analyzers, office of polar programs, national science foundation, terrestrial ecosystems, biosphere, arctic system science, land-atmosphere-ice interaction, nutrient cycling, licor leaf area meter, ecosystem functions, permafrost, chn analyzers, litter characteristics, geographic region, licor soil gas chamber, nsf, opp, arcss, nsf, continent, opp-9902695, moist non-acidic tundra, potassium, brooks range, tussock tundra, arcss, laii, soil respiration, vegetation, opp9902721, nutrients, litter nutrients, carbon flux, usa, nsf, long-term ecological research, united states of america, soil temperature probe, soils, polar, calcium, soil moisture, earth science, ceos, moist acidic tundra, land surface, adcc, opp9902695, national science foundation, soil moisture probe, thaw depth, soil salinity, soil sodicity, leaf characteristics, arc lter, retranslocation, soil chemistry, arctic long term ecological research site, 
TITLE: Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM) Program Network. ABSTRACT: The CALM network currently includes 130 active sites in both hemispheres, with 15 participating countries. An additional 20 or more secondary sites are co-located with these primary sites, resulting in a total over 150 sites that report active-layer thickness on an annual basis. 100 sites collect soil and permafrost temperature data; of these, 60 are from boreholes. Maximum active layer thickness is interpolated from these temperature profiles. Most sites in the CALM network are located in Arctic and Subarctic lowlands, although 20 boreholes are in mountainous regions of the Northern Hemisphere above 1300 m elevation. A new Antarctic component is being organized and currently includes 13 sites. The active layer thickness is measured by physical probing on grids ranging in size from 100 to 1000 meters, by probing at a single point or along transects or from permanently installed frost tubes and soil temperature cables. Sites include several coastal to inland transects in North America, a longitudinal array of sites across Eurasia, and individual sites in several mid-latitude, mountainous regions. The majority of the sites are in arctic tundra regions consisting of fine grained sediments. Bouldery and rocky sites in mountains are being added to the network primarily in Europe as part of the EC Permafrost and Climate in Europe (PACE) project. CALM is being considered as the part of the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS). CALM is closely affiliated with the International Permafrost Association (IPA), several IPA working groups, and the International Tundra Experiment (ITEX). The current protocol for observing the active layer thickness is given in the published ITEX Manual and on the ITEX and IPA web sites. These activities are part of the IPA Global Geocryological Database (GGD). A map on the CAPS CD-ROM illustrates the locations of the 130 sites. A comprehensive metadata file for all sites is available. The CAPS CD-ROM contains detailed metadata and summary data. Raw data can be found at the CALM (http:  www.udel.edu Geography calm ) web site.. KEYWORD: soil moisture, water content, western europe, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, northern hemisphere, russia, north america, sweden, alaska, soil temperature, circumpolar, land records, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, permafrost temperature, svalbard and jan mayen, switzerland, northern europe, monitoring, antarctica, southcentral asia, permafrost, canada, ocean, frozen ground, southern hemisphere, amd, austria, geographic region, continent, active layer, north atlantic ocean, paleoclimate, greenland, boreholes, scandinavia, united states of america, mongolia, kazakhstan, soils, snow, ice, europe, polar, amd, us, soil moisture, circumpolar active layer monitoring program, asia, eastern asia, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, calm, eastern europe, china, norway, atlantic ocean, 
TITLE: ERS-1 Along Track Scanning Radiometer Average Sea Surface Temperature Product. ABSTRACT: The ATSR-1 (Along Track Scanning Radiometer) contains an infra-red radiometer and microwave sounder for measurements of sea-surface temperature, cloud-top temperature and cloud cover, and atmospheric water vapour. This product consists of sea surface temperature averaged over 30 arcminute square cells, aligned with lines of latitude and longitude. It also contains the standard deviation of the temperatures of the 10 arcminute cells that make up the larger cells. Only cloud free ocean cells are provided in the product, latitude and longitude information is provided for each SST value in the product. The inputs are the ATS engineering counts and calibration coefficients and the ATS raw data. This product is only available when the spacecraft is in Yaw Steering Mode. If the attitude of the spacecraft deviated grossly from the nominal values the forward and nadir geolocation will be compromised. Product characteristics: -------------- Grid cell size: 30' x 30' of arc Product area: global Product accuracy: better than 0.5K Product annotations: lat long pairs for all grid points Product location accuracy: 0.5 km Product volume: 100 kbytes ------------- To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, ocean currents, arctic ocean, el nino, aerosols, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, ocean temperature, ers-1, sea surface, esa, esrin, mediterranean sea, sst, heat flux, sea surface temperature, vertical location, polar, fronts, southern ocean, along track scanning radiometer and microwave sounder, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, climate, atmospheric water vapor, upwelling, downwelling, ocean, ocean heat budget, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, ocean circulation, atsr, 
TITLE: Ship Icing Reports from Canadian Offshore Locations. ABSTRACT: This dataset includes ice accretion information from regular ship meteorological reports, Canadian Coast Guard and ship drilling vessel icing reports from Canadian offshore locations. Records include cause of ice accretion, maximum ice accretion thickness and rate of ice accretion. Data coverage varies spatially and temporally due to the transient nature of ships. Access is on request, and there is a charge for the data. Data procurement selection criteria is by Lat Long coordinates. Supplier can make data available in TDF1129 format, on either paper or magnetic tape disk. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Map Projection Name: Albers Conical Equal Area Standard Parallel: Standard Parallel: Longitude of Central Meridian: Latitude of Projection Origin: False Easting: False Northing: Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: ice extent, continent, polar, gcmd, pacific ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, none, idn_node gsfc, aes, canada, cgdi, ocean, canada, north america, sea ice, ice depth, thickness, oceans, atlantic ocean, geographic region, ice growth, melt, north pacific ocean, 
TITLE: Canadian Archaeological Radiocarbon Database. ABSTRACT: This application of the Canadian Archaeological Radiocarbon Database illustrates the locations of radiocarbon-dated archaeological and palaeobiological sites near the time of the last glacial maximum and thereafter for the past 14 millennia. The maps reveal the spread of ancient cultures and animals across a continent newly released from the grip of the Laurentide and Cordilleran Ice Sheets as elucidated by the Geological Survey of Canada (Dyke and Prest, 1986).Selected sites not dated by radiocarbon are also shown to depict the spread of Palaeoindian and Archaic cultures. There are, of course, many other undated occurrences of cultural and animal remains, and it is hoped that this presentation will encourage researchers to fill in the gaps by selecting appropriate samples for radiocarbon dating. The earliest time period in this database presents environmental conditions as of 18 000 years ago, i.e. the "Glacial Maximum" in North America, with sites ranging in age from 19 500 to 14 500 years ago. Each of the younger maps depicts paleoenvironmental conditions (animation) reconstructed at one millenium intervals with dated sites ranging from 500 years older to 500 years younger than the nominal millenium. Most of the paleobiological sites shown here contain the remains of large mammals whose presence signals that the landscape was suitable for human habitation. The dated archeological sites show that people responded quickly to new opportunities by inhabiting recently deglaciated terrain. By 4500 years ago, people were living throughout North America, including the High Arctic. Spatial Data Organization Information - Indirect Spatial Reference: Direct Spatial Reference: Raster Object Type: Row Count: Column Count: Vertical Count: Spatial Reference Information - Horizontal Coordinate System Definition - Planar - Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: Coordinate Representation: Abscissa Resolution: Ordinate Resolution: Distance and Bearing Representation: Distance Resolution: Bearing Resolution: Bearing Units: Bearing Reference Direction: Bearing Reference Meridian: Planar Distance Units: Geodetic Model: Horizontal Datum Name: Ellipsoid Name: Semi-major Axis: Denominator of Flattening Ratio:. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, newfoundland and labrador, gcmd, mid-latitude, manitoba, arctic, british columbia, none, nunavut, paleoclimate, northwest territories, ice sheet, northern hemisphere, paleontology, north america, ontario, isotopes, saskatchewan, land records, glacial maximum, yukon territory, polar, geochronology, geochemistry, nova scotia, earth science, ceos, quebec, alberta, canada, cgdi, glaciation, canada, prince edward island, archaeological radiocarbon, new brunswick, ice core records, geographic region, western hemisphere, carbon isotopes, 
TITLE: Catalog of Earthquake Hypocenters at Alaskan Volcanoes: January 1,1994 through December 31, 1999; USGS. ABSTRACT: Between 1994 and 1999, the Alaska Volcano Observatory (AVO) seismic monitoring program underwent significant changes with networks added at new volcanoes during each summer from 1995 through 1999. The existing network at Katmai ?Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes (VTTS) was repaired in 1995, and new networks were installed at Makushin (1996), Akutan (1996), Pavlof (1996), Katmai - south (1996), Aniakchak (1997), Shishaldin (1997), Katmai - north (1998), Westdahl, (1998), Great Sitkin (1999) and Kanaga (1999). These networks added to AVO's existing seismograph networks in the Cook Inlet area and increased the number of AVO seismograph stations from 46 sites and 57 components in 1994 to 121 sites and 155 components in 1999. The 1995?1999 seismic network expansion increased the number of volcanoes monitored in real-time from 4 to 22, including Mount Spurr, Redoubt Volcano, Iliamna Volcano, Augustine Volcano, Mount Snowy, Mount Griggs, Mount Katmai, Novarupta, Trident Volcano, Mount Mageik, Mount Martin, Aniakchak Crater, Pavlof Volcano, Mount Dutton, Isanotski volcano, Shisaldin Volcano, Fisher Caldera, Westdahl volcano, Akutan volcano, Makushin Volcano, Great Sitkin volcano, and Kanaga Volcano (see Figures 1-15). The network expansion also increased the number of earthquakes located from about 600 per year in 1994 and 1995 to about 3000 per year between 1997 and 1999. Highlights of the catalog period include: 1) a large volcanogenic seismic swarm at Akutan volcano in March and April 1996 (Lu and others, 2000); 2) an eruption at Pavlof Volcano in fall 1996 (Garces and others, 2000; McNutt and others, 2000); 3) an earthquake swarm at Iliamna volcano between September and December 1996; 4) an earthquake swarm at Mount Mageik in October 1996 (Jolly and McNutt, 1999); 5) an earthquake swarm located at shallow depth near Strandline Lake; 6) a strong swarm of earthquakes near Becharof Lake; 7) precursory seismicity and an eruption at Shishaldin Volcano in April 1999 that included a 5.2 ML earthquake and aftershock sequence (Moran and others, in press; Thompson and others, in press). The 1996 calendar year is also notable as the seismicity rate was very high, especially in the fall when 3 separate areas (Strandline Lake, Iliamna Volcano, and several of the Katmai volcanoes) experienced high rates of located earthquakes. This catalog covers the period from January 1, 1994, through December 31,1999, and includes: 1) earthquake origin times, hypocenters, and magnitudes with summary statistics describing the earthquake location quality; 2) a description of instruments deployed in the field and their locations and magnifications; 3) a description of earthquake detection, recording, analysis, and data archival; 4) velocity models used for earthquake locations; 5) phase arrival times recorded at individual stations; and 6) a summary of daily station usage from throughout the report period. We have made calculated hypocenters, station locations, system magnifications, velocity models, and phase arrival information available for download via computer network as a compressed Unix tar file.. KEYWORD: solid earth, continent, seismology, arctic, seismic, aedd, earthquake occurrences, seismic profile, united states of america, north america, alaska, ground stations, polar, pacific ocean, seismogram, earth science, ceos, geophysics, earthquake, seismological stations, ocean, seismometers, alaska coastal waters, southern alaska, geographic region, usgs, usa, usgs, 
TITLE: Landsat Imagery from the University of Alaska Geophysical Institute, GeoData Center. ABSTRACT: Landsat imagery at the University of Alaska's Geophysical Institute includes data covering Alaska and the surrounding areas since 1972. The collection is comprised primarily of Multispectral Scanner System (MSS) data, although data from the Return Beam Vidicon (RBV) and Thematic Mapper (TM) are also included. The MSS provides repetitive acquisition of high-resolution multispectral data of the earth's surface on a global basis. This sensor package images a 100 nautical mile (185 km) wide swath directly below the satellite as it passes over the Earth. Each scene, or frame of data, covers an area 100 by 100 n. miles in size. The nominal size of a pixel (picture element) for this sensor is 80 meters on a side. Four separate bands (wavelengths) are recorded by the MSS: Green 0.5-0.6 microns Red 0.6-0.7 microns Near IR1 0.7-0.8 microns Near IR2 0.8-1.1 microns Initially data were acquired directly from NASA, and were a subset of the holdings of the EROS Data Center in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Starting in 1978, additional images were acquired from the Canadian Centre for Remote Sensing. From 1982 to 1991, most of the coverage was acquired by the Geophysical Institute Quick Look Project, which operated recording equipment at the NOAA Gilmore Tracking Station near Fairbanks. Scenes in the database that were acquired by the Quick-Look program are so indicated. Much of this data IS NOT in the EROS Data Center's data base and is therefore UNIQUE to this collection. TM and RBV data included in the collection originally came from NASA, the EROS Data Center or EOSAT, depending on the time of acquisition. Their characteristics are described in the references listed for the collection.. KEYWORD: arctic ocean, continent, visible imagery, return beam vidicon, landsat-3, landsat-2, idn_node gsfc, uaf, gdc, landsat-5, rbv, landsat-4, arctic, infrared imagery, gulf of alaska, mss, cameras, united states of america, north america, alaska, spectral, engineering, uaf, thematic mapper, north pacific ocean, ali, bering sea, polar, infrared wavelengths, pacific ocean, earth science, usa, nasa, beaufort sea, visible wavelengths, ocean, tm, landsat-1, geographic region, chukchi sea, multispectral scanner, sea-ice, landsat, 
TITLE: Iditarod George Resource Management Area; USGS, Alaska. ABSTRACT: Since the early 1980's the EROS Alaska Field Office (AFO) has been involved in the acquisition, classification, and analysis of digital land cover data over the State of Alaska, and to a limited extent, northwestern Canada and Wrangle Island, Russia. The digital data currently covers approximately 77% of the land and water within the boundaries of the State of Alaska. These data are currently being made available via the AFO web site to land managers and researchers who may be interested in land cover conditions over various portions of Alaska. The land cover maps as a result of digital analysis of Landsat multispectral scanner, Landsat thematic mapper, and SPOT multispectral scanner satellite data. Some data however, are missing from the database due to data degradation on storage media or loss of data tapes, although a limited number of hard copy map products may be in existence, for example, U.S. Forest Service land cover data for southeast Alaska. The land cover data are stored online in a series of directories and are available via the web. Each directory name is indicative of the area for which the land cover data exists. Some directories connote a U.S. Geological Survey 1:250,000 quadrangle (for example, anchorage_int), while others indicate a particular project area (for example, anwr represents Arctic National Wildlife Refuge) or the agency responsible for producing the data. For example, nowitna.fws indicates that the data were produced for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Directories with an '_int' suffix denote that the data correspond to the Interim Landcover Mapping project. Each directory contains five files with the following extensions: .bil, .blw, .hdr, .prj, and .stx. As a group, one or more of the files can be read by most image analysis and GIS software packages. The .bil file contains the binary raster land cover data and the others are ASCII files. The .bil file does not contain any header or footer records, and can be easily imported into image processing software by using the information contained in the .blw and .hdr files. The .blw file provides pixel size information as well as the upper left corner coordinate. The .hdr contains number of rows and columns of the data set, as well as band format (band interleave). The .prj file gives projection information, and the .stx file gives information on minimum maximum  mean values of the data. Projection parameters for the data sets are either in Universal Transverse Projection (UTM) or Alaska Albers Equal Area Conic.. KEYWORD: land management, terrain elevation, alpine, tundra, digital elevation model, arctic, aedd, mss, dem, field geology, north america, alaska, ground stations, human dimensions, field maps, land cover, models, topography, vegetation cover, land use, land cover, maps, charts, terrestrial ecosystems, cartography, biosphere, landforms, alaska directory, systeme probatoire pour l'observation de la terre-1, topographical relief, geographic region, usgs, spot-1, land use classes, usa, usgs, continent, landcover, vegetation, iditarod, geology, united states of america, george, land, satellite, thematic mapper, elevation, polar, blm, earth science, ceos, land surface, land resources, tm, multispectral scanner, landsat, 
TITLE: MMS Oregon Washington Miller Freeman Cruise (Birds). ABSTRACT: ABSTRACT: Oregon And Washington Marine Mammal And Seabird Surveys Studies: -- Oregon Washington Ship [Bird and Mammal Observations] Study Code: MF Contract Number: 14-12-0001-30426 Principal Investigator(s) Affiliation: G. A. Green, Ebasco Environmental, Bellevue, Washington, M. L. Bonnell and K. T. Briggs, Ecological Consulting, Inc., Portland, Oregon PURPOSE: OBJECTIVES: Objectives of the study were to review and analyze all available literature and databases concerning marine mammal and seabird diversity, distribution, and abundance in the Oregon-Washington coastal and offshore areas; to conduct field surveys over a 18-month period and to prepare reports summarizing the findings. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: DATA COLLECTION: TIME PERIOD: April 1989 through October 1990 STUDY AREA: Pacific Ocean waters of Oregon and Washington from the coast to approximately 60 nautical miles offshore. METHODOLGY: Aerial surveys were conducted along 32 pre-established transects designed to systematically sample marine mammal and seabird abundance in all waters of the study area. Coastal surveys and one shelf break survey were also conducted. Standard transects provided systematic coverage of shelf, slope, and offshore waters in the study area. Sightings of seabirds, pinnipeds, cetaceans, and turtles were recorded. Seabird sightings were recorded only on the shaded side of the aircraft within a strip transect of 50 m width. Marine mammal and turtle sightings were recorded within an unbounded corridor. Declination angle was measured and noted for each marine mammal turtle sightings and later used to calculate a probability density function of frequency with right-angle sighting distance. Navigation was by Loran and VLF-Omega. One ship survey was also conducted from aboard the NOAA ship Miller Freeman during August 1989. DATABASES PRODUCED: Databases produced include 1) sightings of seabirds and marine mammals on 12 aerial surveys and one ship cruise, and 2) sightings of cetaceans on 12 aerial surveys and one ship cruise. CURRENTNESS REFERENCE: ground condition SPATIAL REFERENCE INFORMATION - GEODETIC MODEL Horizontal Datum Name: D_WGS_1984 Ellipsoid Name: WGS_1984 Semi-major Axis: 6378137.000000 Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257224. KEYWORD: albatrosses, salteador cola larga, bosse, obis, seamap, biological classification, herons, rhinoceros auklet, salteador pomarino, troit, aigles, longue queue, true's porpoise, arctic, sharks, bonaparte's gull, mouette de bonaparte, torpedoes, cheurs, gaviota occidental, sabine's gull, marbled murrelet, requin bleu, waders, gulls, auks and allies, anite cul-blanc, north pacific ocean, california sea lion, arctic tern, western gull, gaviota ploma, cormorans, sternes, animals, vertebrates, murres, cigognes, ibises, ibis, petrels, ships, labbes, mammals, terns, guillemots, loons, jaegers, penguins, skates, glaucous-winged gull, humpback whale, continent, sandpipers, blue shark, land de californie, perviers, albatrosses, petrels and allies, gaviota plateada, birds, common tern, grebes, storm petrels, flamants, fulmars, shearwaters, bec large, becs-en-ciseaux, pingouins, obis - spatial ecological analysis of megavertebrate populations, puffin fuligineux, rorquals, polar, n de brandt, labbe pomarin, sito, pacific ocean, n costado blanco, puffins, pez luna, n pescador, casseaux, rtico, carnivores, risso's dolphin, o de leach, ballena jorobada, california gull, fish, northern right-whale dolphin, herons, egrets and allies, marine turtles, o cenizo, sooty shearwater, n caspia, phalaropes, pluviers, alca rinoceronte, long-tailed jaeger, sterne caspienne, harbor porpoise, alcuela oscura, gaviota pico anillado, north america, labbe parasite, cassin's auklet, falaropo pico grueso, sharks, rays, chimaeras, parasitic jaeger, pigeon guillemot, gaviota californiana, cetaceans, cheur, pacific white-sided dolphin, pomarine jaeger, baleen whales, sea turtles, gulls, n azul, faucons, harbor seal, phoque commun, common murre, tufted puffin, modern sea turtles, auks, triers, marsopa de dall, red phalarope, ocean, guillemot marmette, albatros, storks, oregon, geographic region, rays, washington, caspian tern, pardela gris, leach's storm-petrel, mouettes, turtles, brandt's cormorant, toothed whales, pardela pata rosada, northern fulmar, reptiles, falaropo cuello rojo, n chato, marsouin commun, common porpoise, sterne pierregarin, obis-seamap, sterne arctique, oceanodroma homochroa, seals, sea lions, walruses, united states of america, fork-tailed storm-petrel, eagles, falcons, hawks and allies, dall's porpoise, northern right whale dolphin, gaviota de bonaparte, licans, california sealion, grampus, ring-billed gull, pelicans and allies, earth science, red-necked phalarope, lobo-marino californiano, osprey, huarts, black-legged kittiwake, ocean sunfish, tubinares, heermann's gull, northern fur seal, trels, ibises, spoonbills, lands, rons, gaviota ala glauca, herring gull, finback whales, 
TITLE: ERS-1 2 Radar Altimeter Ocean Product. ABSTRACT: Range, wave height, wind speed at ~1Hz rate. Precise orbit altitude, tropospheric corrections, ionospheric correction and external corrections are annotated. Both the Microwave Radiometer (MWR) and meteorological wet tropospheric corrections are available. Only data over ocean are included. Product characteristics: ------------ Data Sample Frequency: 1 Hz (~7 km) along-track Product volume per month cycle: ~ 350 Mbytes ----------- To order data please see "http:  earth.esa.int helpandmail help_order.html". KEYWORD: atmosphere, arctic ocean, arctic, north atlantic ocean, european remote sensing satellite-1, european remote sensing satellite-2, ers radar altimeter, ers-1, ers-2, sea surface, esa, esrin, mediterranean sea, global ocean, ocean waves, vertical location, polar, ocean winds, southern ocean, meteorology, pacific ocean, earth science, ceos, wave height, ra, atmospheric winds, ocean, oceanography, oceans, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, indian ocean, 
TITLE: BIOME 6000 (v4.2): Vegetation Maps for the Mid-Holocene and Last Glacial Maximum. ABSTRACT: The Palaeovegetation Mapping Project (generally known as BIOME 6000: Prentice and Webb, 1998) was inaugurated in 1994 with the aim of providing global maps describing the vegetation patterns at 6000500 yr B.P. (on the radiocarbon time scale) and the last glacial maximum (defined as 18,0001000 yr B.P. on the radiocarbon time scale, equivalent to 21,000 yr B.P. on the calendar time scale) for use by the modelling community. The BIOME 6000 project has used a standard methodology to map vegetation patterns using fossil pollen and plant-macrofossil data from individual sites. The taxa represented in the pollen or plant-macrofossil assemblages are first allocated to plant functional types (PFTs) on the basis of the life form, leaf form, phenology and bioclimatic tolerance of the plant species included within the taxon. Because of the lack of taxonomic resolution in pollen identification, some taxa can be classified into more than one PFT. Biomes (i.e. major vegetation types at a regional scale) are defined by combinations of PFTs, where these combinations usually include both characteristic and dominant groups. Some PFTs which are known to occur within a given biome are not included in the biome definition because they occur in too many biomes to provide discriminatory power. Once the taxon to PFT and PFT to biome classifications are made, the affinity of pollen or plant-macrofossil assemblages from individual sites for each biome is calculated. Each assemblage is allocated to the biome for which it has the highest affinity. In cases where the assemblage has equal affinity for more than one biome, which can occur when one biome is defined by a subset of the PFTs that characterise another biome, the assemblage is allocated to the biome defined by the subset. The published version of the BIOME 6000 database (Version 3: Prentice et al., 2000) was based on maps produced on a region by region basis over a number of years. Here, we have fused the information from the various regions and standardised the biome names. We recognise 40 biomes, using names that are broadly consistent with the BIOME4 equilibrium biogeography-biochemistry model (Kaplan et al., 2003). Since Version 3 of the BIOME 6000 database was released, there have been three new palaeovegetation mapping initiatives. Harrison et al. (2001) added a number of sites from the continental shelf east of China which date to the last glacial maximum. The Pan-Arctic Initiative (PAIN) extended the site coverage from the high-northern latitudes at both 6000 yr B.P. and the last glacial maximum (Bigelow et al., 2003). Pickett et al. (2004) extended the coverage to the SEAPAC (South East Asia and the Pacific) region at both 6000 yr B.P. and the last glacial maximum. These data sets are included in the current version of the BIOME 6000 data set (Version 4.2). BIOME 6000 Version 4.2 has records for 11166 modern sites, 1794 sites at 6000 yr B.P., and 318 sites at 18,000 yr B.P. This data set is also available from the Paleoclimate Modelling Intercomparison project - Phase II: http:  www-lsce.cea.fr pmip2 synth vegmaps.shtml An early version of this data set is available from the WDC Paleoclimatology http:  www.ncdc.noaa.gov paleo biome6000.html. KEYWORD: intergovernmental panel on climate change, vegetation patterns, alpine, tundra, shrubland, scrub, western europe, paleovegetation, japan, holocene, arctic, vegetation species, global land, russia, north america, land records, savannas, africa, paleoclimate reconstructions, terrestrial ecosystems, northern europe, biosphere, paleo stop date 6000 ybp, plant phenology, biome 6000, canada, paleo start date 18000 ybp, radiocarbon, geographic region, pft, microfossils, continent, pollen, cenozoic, vegetation, plant functional types, paleoclimate modelling intercomparison project, paleoclimate, southern europe, pmip, grasslands, lgm, united states of america, vegetation reconstruction, quaternary, europe, polar, last glacial maximum, biogeography, asia, eastern asia, earth science, phanerozoic, usa, nasa, forests, eastern europe, china, ipcc, central europe, leaf characteristics, plant characteristics, 
TITLE: Long-Term Monitoring of Signy Lake Chemistry by BAS 1963-2004. ABSTRACT: The long term monitoring of water chemistry in Signy Island lakes is unique in polar limnology, in its duration (30+ years), detail, and range of sites. It details seasonal patterns of snow and ice cover, inorganic nutrient status and chlorophyll-a and includes vertical profiles of various physical chemical parameters. There are detailed data for several study lakes and twice thrice yearly analyses for all the Signy Island lakes. Temperature and light climate has been studied in certain lakes using automatic data loggers. Micrometeorological monitoring with additional data loggers provided data on solar radiation (PAR, UVR), air temperature, humidity and wind conditions. Data are collected by chemical analysis, use of temperature, pH light probes and observation. The ''grand prix'' was the sampling of 16 lakes in a short period (approx. one week), this was carried out perhaps two or three times a year. Approximately three to five lakes were sampled monthly or fortnightly in m ore detail, these were representative of the 16 lakes. Comparative studies were also undertaken in the Arctic. The long-term programme was established in 1971, although some observations were made in 1963 1964 and 1969 1970. The programme finished in 2004. The data are held in an ORACLE database system maintained by the Biological Sciences Data and Resource Centre. The British Antarctic Survey Archives Service holds records on this study (LS2 6). As the exact months of the data collection were not provided, and the metadata standard requires a YYYY-MM-DD format, this dataset has been dated as 1st January for start date, and 31st December for stop date.. KEYWORD: continent, ecological dynamics, water temperature, vegetation, lake ice, light transmission, nutrients, water quality, water chemistry, aquatic ecosystems, lakes, snow, ice, terrestrial hydrosphere, oxygen, south atlantic ocean, polar, signy island, pigments, southern ocean, earth science, cryosphere, chlorophyll, ceos, biosphere, antarctica, nutrient cycling, ecosystem functions, inorganic matter, ocean, ice depth, thickness, organic matter, ph, south orkney islands, amd, uk, amd, atlantic ocean, geographic region, 
TITLE: Cryosolic Pedons from Northern Canada. ABSTRACT: Pedons included here represent Cryosolic (permafrost-affected) soils from across the Canadian North from Baffin Island in the east, to the lower Mackenzie Valley and northern Yukon in the west, and to Ellesmere Island in the High Arctic. Pedon locations are Pangnirtung Pass, Baffin Island, N.W.T. (8 pedons); Inuvik area, N.W.T. (2 pedons); Mackenzie Delta, N.W.T. (2 pedons); Tanquary Fiord, Ellesmere Island, N.W.T. (4 pedons); Lake Hazen, Ellesmere Island, N.W.T. (4 pedons); Eagle Plains, northern Yukon (3 pedons); Dawson City area, central Yukon (2 pedons). Cryosolic soils, according to the Canadian soil classification, are either mineral or organic materials that have permafrost either within 1 m of the surface (Static and Organic Cryosols) or within 2 m (Turbic Cryosols) if more than one-third of the pedon has been strongly cryoturbated, as indicated by disrupted, mixed, or broken horizons. They have a mean annual temperature below 0 degree C. In the soil profile descriptions, the perennially frozen (permafrost) soil horizons are identified by the letter 'z'. The descriptions and nomenclature used to describe these pedons are according to - Expert Committee on Soil Survey. 1983. The Canada Soil Information System, Manual for describing soil in the field. Agriculture Canada, Ottawa, Canada. Agriculture Canada Expert Committee on Soil Survey. 1987. The Canadian System of Soil Classification. (2nd ed.) Research Branch, Agriculture Canada, Ottawa, Canada. The methods for laboratory analysis are according to - Sheldrick, B.H. (editor). 1984. Analytical Methods Manual. 1984. Land Resource Research Institute, Agriculture Canada, Ottawa, Canada. Additional information relating to these pedons can be obtain by contacting Charles Tarnocai, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Research Branch (ECORC), K.W. Neatby Building, Rm. 1135, 960 Carling Avenue, OTTAWA, Canada, K1A 0C6; Tel.- (613) 759-1857; Fax- (613) 759-1937; E-mail- tarnocaict@em.agr.ca. The data file on the CAPS Version 1.0 CD-ROM contains laboratory analyses of the soil samples, including chemical, physical, mineralogical (clay mineralogy when applicable), and particle size distribution analyses.. KEYWORD: continent, cryopedology, ggd, arctic, usa, noaa, cryosols, agriculture, north america, northern canada, soils, soil classification, ground-based observations, global geocryological data system, polar, periglacial features, earth science, cryosphere, ceos, land surface, permafrost features, permafrost, canada, frozen ground, soil properties, geographic region, 
